REIMBURSABLE DETAIL  

CENTER FOR TOBACCO PRODUCTS  

The Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Center for Tobacco Products (CTP), Office of 
Regulations (OR) is offering a Detail opportunity to Unclassified Duties (equivalent to a Regulatory 
Counsel). Applicants at the GS-14 grade level are encouraged to apply. PHS Commissioned Corps 
Officers may apply. The Detail is for a period of 120 days. A temporary promotion will not be 
considered.  Previous applicants do not need to apply again. 

Bargaining Unit Status:    

Bargaining Unit Position  

Duty Location:  

Anywhere in the U.S. (REMOTE JOB) 

Office Location:      

Food and Drug Administration   
Center for Tobacco Products  
Office of Regulations    
10903 New Hampshire Avenue  
Silver Spring, MD 20993  

Area of Consideration:   

HHS Employees  

Opening Date: 

  March 14, 2023  

Closing Date:   

March 27, 2023 

On June 22, 2009, the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (Tobacco Control Act) 
(Public Law 111-31) was signed into law. The Tobacco Control Act granted FDA important new 
authority to regulate the manufacture, marketing, and distribution of tobacco products to protect the 
public health generally and to reduce tobacco use by minors. To carry out this responsibility, FDA 
established the CTP.  

Major Duties will include:  

Participates in CTP’s and the Agency’s rulemaking and guidance development activities, such as 
summarizing comments submitted to the docket, performing legal research, and drafting preambles to 
rules. Projects include working on product standard rules that are part of the Cancer Moonshot Initiative 
aimed at decreasing the negative impact of tobacco products, such as menthol cigarettes and flavored 
cigars, on public health by reducing initiation and addiction to these products.   

Serves as a recognized government-wide expert in matters related to tobacco programs and is frequently 
called on to advise others concerning FDA statutes and regulations. 

Participates in the planning for CTP’s and the Agency’s rulemaking and guidance development activities. 

  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
                                            
                                              
                                              
                                              
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
Represents OR and CTP in dealing with organizations such as Congress, Federal agencies, State, local, 
and foreign governments, the regulated industry and public interest groups. 

Prepares replies to correspondence from the regulated community and other interested persons on issues 
that are industry-wide in scope or have broad health implications and that concern precedent setting 
interpretations of FDA. 

Desired Knowledge and Skills:  

•  Knowledge of the various titles of law applicable to the Agency’s mission, Federal laws 

governing or affecting the program, Federal significant national and local developments in 
the field. 

•  Experience reviewing, summarizing, and drafting responses to public comments received 

on proposed regulations. 

•  Knowledge of other pertinent regulatory information in agency manuals, reference 

systems, directives, issuances, precedent decisions, court decisions, and commercial 
publications.  

•  Excellent oral and written communication skills.  
•  Excellent organizational skills.  

Application Procedure:  

The Detail opportunity is open to all qualified candidates at the GS-14 grade level or Commissioned 
Corps Officers (O-5 or O-6).   

Supervisory concurrence is required in order to accept a Detail; it is not required to apply.  
Interested applicants must submit a resume, recent copy of SF-50, and a statement of interest via 
email to:  

Michele Quander  
Office of Management  
Center for Tobacco Products  
Michele.Quander@fda.hhs.gov   

For questions about this position, please contact Thomas Crumbacker at 
Thomas.Crumbacker@fda.hhs.gov or 240-402-1340.    

Travel Expenses will not be paid.  

Applications/resumes must be submitted by March 27, 2023.  

This is not an official vacancy announcement under the Merit Promotion System. 

 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
