Spinraza 
Procedural steps taken and scientific information after the authorisation* 

*Due to the Agency`s update of its procedure management systems, an additional document, reflecting the historical lifecycle may be available in the 

'Assessment history' section. For the complete product lifecycle procedures, you may need to also refer to EPAR - Procedural steps taken and scientific 

information after authorisation (archive). 

Application number 

Scope 

Opinion/ 

Commission 

Product 

Summary 

Notification

Decision 

Information 

1 issued on 

Issued2 / 

affected3  

amended on 

Variation type II / 

Outcome:   

09/07/2026  

SmPC 

Update of section 5.1 of the SmPC in order to 

1 Notifications are issued for type I variations and Article 61(3) notifications (unless part of a group including a type II variation or extension application or a worksharing application). Opinions 
are issued for all other procedures. 
2 A Commission decision (CD) is issued for procedures that affect the terms of the marketing authorisation (e.g. summary of product characteristics, annex II, labelling, package leaflet). The 
CD is issued within two months of the opinion for variations falling under the scope of Article 23.1a(a) of Regulation (EU) No. 712/2012, or within one year for other procedures. 
3 SmPC (Summary of Product Characteristics), Annex II, Labelling, PL (Package Leaflet). 

Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 

An agency of the European Union 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
EMA/VR/0000343430 

C. Safety, efficacy, pharmacovigilance 

changes - C.4 Change(s) in the summary of 

product characteristics, labelling or package 

leaflet due to new quality, preclinical, clinical 

or pharmacovigilance data. - Accepted 

Update of section 5.1 of the SmPC in order 

to update existing clinical data, based on a 

correction of existing data analyses involving 

neurofilament light chain (NfL) testing. 

update existing clinical data involving neurofilament 

light chain (NfL) testing. For more information, 

please refer to the Summary of Product 

Characteristics. 

Page 2/2 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
