
===PAGE 1===
CENTER FOR DRUG EVALUATION AND 
RESEARCH 
 
 
 
APPLICATION NUMBER: 
 
209531Orig1s000 
 
 
MEDICAL REVIEW(S) 

===PAGE 2===
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA 209531
Spinraza (nusinersen)
Safety Team Leader Review
Date 
December 15, 2017
From
Sally Usdin Yasuda
Subject
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA/BLA #
Supplement#
NDA 209531
Applicant
Biogen, Inc.
Date of Submission
September 23, 2016
PDUFA Goal Date
May 23, 2017
Proprietary Name / Non-
Proprietary Name
Spinraza (nusinersen)
Dosage form(s) / Strength(s)
Solution for intrathecal injection, 2.4 mg/ml
Applicant Proposed 
Indication(s)/Population(s)
Treatment of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA)
Recommendation on 
Regulatory Action
If efficacy is demonstrated and the benefits of nusinersen 
outweigh the risks, then I recommend approval 
Recommended 
Indication(s)/Population(s) (if 
applicable)
1.
Benefit-Risk Assessment
 
1
Reference ID: 4028770

===PAGE 3===
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA 209531
Spinraza (nusinersen)
Benefit-Risk Summary and Assessment
Nusinersen is proposed to be used for treatment of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA).   If efficacy is demonstrated and the benefits of nusinersen 
outweigh the risks, then I recommend approval with labeling language including WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS to mitigate the risks.    
This document reviews the risk profile of nusinersen.  I summarize the findings of Dr. Evelyn Mentari and I agree with her recommendations 
regarding risk and strategies to reduce the risk.  Please refer to Dr. Rainer Paine’s review for discussion of Analysis of Condition and Current 
Treatment Options and Benefit. 
Risk:
Nusinersen is associated with adverse effects that have potentially severe consequences.  

Six of 56 (11%) nusinersen patients had a platelet level below the lower limit of normal, compared to 0 of 28 sham procedure control 
patients. No patient had a platelet count less than 50,000 cells per microliter in that study. Five of 173 (3%) nusinersen patients had a 
hemorrhagic complication of lumbar puncture.  Coagulation abnormalities have been observed after administration of some antisense 
oligonucleotides. Low platelet levels or coagulation abnormalities may increase the risk of adverse outcomes after intrathecal 
administration of nusinersen. Monitoring platelets and coagulation parameters at baseline and prior to each maintenance dose may help 
mitigate this risk.

Proteinuria occurred in 17 of 51 (33%) nusinersen subjects with infantile onset SMA compared to 5/25 (20%) sham control subjects.  
Proteinuria occurred in 36 of 52 (69%) of nusinersen subjects with later-onset SMA subjects with a longer duration of treatment.  
Treatment emergent low serum bicarbonate occurred in 32 of 48 (67%) of nusinersen subjects in whom it was measured; measurements 
from a comparator control were not performed.  Low serum bicarbonate levels are characteristic of proximal renal tubular acidosis.   
Nusinersen accumulates in the kidney and renal toxicity is a class effect of oligonucleotides.  Monitoring for proteinuria and monitoring 
serum electrolytes including bicarbonate may help mitigate a risk of an adverse clinical outcome. 

Severe hyponatremia occurred in a patient treated with nusinersen.  Monitoring serum electrolytes at baseline and before each dose 
may help mitigate this risk.  

Decreased growth (height and weight) was observed in nusinersen subjects compared to sham control subjects in Study CS3B.   
Clinical studies did not evaluate whether the effect of nusinersen on growth is reversible with cessation of treatment. 

Rash and possible vasculitis were reported in 2 patients out of 173 treated with nusinersen.  A third subject had new onset seizures 
and cerebral infarction after starting nusinersen, with no known risk factor or potential cause for cerebral infarction; the etiology in 
this case is unknown but vasculitis is a possible cause of cerebral infarction.

Nusinersen, like other phosphorothioate oligonucleotides, accumulates in the liver.  In Study CS3B, 2 of 55 (4%) nusinersen 
subjects had an alanine aminotransferase (ALT) level greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal, compared to 0 of 25 control 
2
Reference ID: 4028770

===PAGE 4===
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA 209531
Spinraza (nusinersen)
subjects.  Monitoring hepatic tests, including gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) may help mitigate the risk of hepatotoxicity. 
Paragraph #5
If nusinersen is approved, I recommend WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS in labeling regarding the risks of thrombocytopenia and coagulation 
abnormalities, renal toxicity, hyponatremia, decreased growth, possible vasculitis, and hepatotoxicity.  If nusinersen is approved, the label should 
include recommendations for monitoring to mitigate these risks.
Dimension
Evidence and Uncertainties 
Conclusions and Reasons 
Analysis of 
Condition
Please refer to Dr. Paine’s review of clinical efficacy.
Current 
Treatment 
Options
Please refer to Dr. Paine’s review of clinical efficacy.
Benefit
Please refer to Dr. Paine’s review of clinical efficacy.
Risk
The safety database for nusinersen includes all patients from the Phase 
3 controlled study and the Phase 2 uncontrolled study in patients 
with symptomatic infantile onset SMA, the Phase 2 open-label study 
in infants with pre-symptomatic SMA, and open label trials in 
subjects with later onset SMA.  Drug exposure is adequate for NDA 
Safety issues that occur at the proposed dose of 
nusinersen include thrombocytopenia, 
proteinuria, hyponatremia, decreased growth, 
and rash and possible vasculitis.  Increased 
liver enzymes have also been observed in some 
3
Reference ID: 4028770

===PAGE 5===
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA 209531
Spinraza (nusinersen)
Dimension
Evidence and Uncertainties 
Conclusions and Reasons 
submission, but longer durations of exposure may occur in the 
postmarketing setting.  The safety database did not include patients 
with Type 4 SMA (age of symptom onset in the second or third 
decade), who are included in the proposed treatment indication.    
  The most common AEs in the Phase 3 controlled trial (Study CS3B) 
in symptomatic infantile onset (at least 20%, and at least 5% greater 
or at least 2 times as frequently as sham control) were:  upper 
respiratory infection (44%); lower respiratory infections (43%); and 
constipation (30%). In later onset patients, common adverse events 
that were not commonly reported in Study CS3B included headache 
(50%), back pain (41%), and post lumbar puncture syndrome (41%) 
most of which occurred within 5 days of lumbar puncture. 

 Six of 56 (11%) nusinersen patients had a platelet level below the lower 
limit of normal, compared to 0 of 28 sham procedure control patients. No 
patient had a platelet count less than 50,000 cells per microliter in that 
study. Five of 173 (3%) nusinersen patients had a hemorrhagic 
complication of lumbar puncture.  Coagulation abnormalities have been 
observed after administration of some antisense oligonucleotides.  

Proteinuria occurred in 17 of 51 (33%) nusinersen subjects with infantile 
onset SMA compared to 5/25 (20%) sham control subjects.  Proteinuria 
occurred in 26 of 52 (69%) of later-onset SMA subjects with a longer 
duration of treatment. Nusinersen accumulates in the kidney in humans and 
accumulation in proximal tubule cells has been described in nonclinical 
studies.  The urinary dipstick test used in nusinersen clinical studies is 
relatively insensitive to proteins that are major constituents of tubular 
proteinuria.  Treatment emergent low serum bicarbonate occurred in 32 of 
48 (67%) of nusinersen subjects in whom it was measured; measurements 
from a comparator control were not performed.  Low serum bicarbonate 
levels are characteristic of proximal renal tubular acidosis.   Renal toxicity 
is a class effect of oligonucleotides, and life-threatening sequelae of 
patients.  Bleeding abnormalities, renal 
accumulation, and hepatic accumulation are 
class effects  of phosphorothioate antisense 
oligonucleotides.   The safety issues potentially 
could have life-threatening outcomes; 
monitoring could mitigate the risk.   The 
magnitude of the potential for serious harm 
after approval is unknown.  
Because of limitations due to the small number 
of patients exposed and duration of exposure in 
the clinical trials, it is likely that adverse 
reactions not identified to date, or of a 
magnitude not observed to date, will occur in 
the postmarketing setting.
6
Reference ID: 4028770

===PAGE 6===
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA 209531
Spinraza (nusinersen)
Dimension
Evidence and Uncertainties 
Conclusions and Reasons 
proteinuria have been reported with other antisense oligonucleotides. 
Severe hyponatremia occurred in a patient treated with nusinersen.  
The sodium level normalized after salt supplementation treatment, 
which continued for 14 months. 

Decreased growth (height and weight)  was observed in nusinersen subjects 
compared to sham control subjects in Study CS3B.   Clinical studies did 
not evaluate whether the effect of nusinersen on growth is reversible with 
cessation of treatment.
Rash and possible vasculitis were reported in 2 patients treated with 
nusinersen; one patient did not have a biopsy and the other patient 
had a post-operative diagnosis of vasculitis vs vascular occlusion, 
although the biopsy reported stated “there are no features of 
vasculitis”.   A third subject had new onset seizures and cerebral 
infarction after starting nusinersen, with no known risk factor or 
potential cause for cerebral infarction; the etiology in this case is 
unknown but vasculitis is a possible cause of cerebral infarction. 
Nusinersen, like other phosphorothioate oligonucleotides, accumulates 
in the liver.  In Study CS3B, 2 of 55 (4%) nusinersen subjects had an 
alanine aminotransferase (ALT) level greater than 3 times the upper 
limit of normal, compared to 0 of 25 control subjects. 
  
Safety in the postmarketing setting: Laboratory values as markers of 
renal, hepatic, and thrombocytopenia adverse events would be  
useful at baseline and prior to each maintenance dose in the 
postmarket setting if the drug is approved.  
Other uncertainties:  The risk of serious toxicity with longer term 
exposure and with exposure in more patients is unknown.  
8
Reference ID: 4028770

===PAGE 7===
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA 209531
Spinraza (nusinersen)
Dimension
Evidence and Uncertainties 
Conclusions and Reasons 
Risk 
Management
Strong product labeling with recommendations for monitoring of 
laboratory parameters may help to mitigate the risks of renal, hepatic, 
and thrombocytopenia adverse events.  However, even with adequate 
monitoring, some patients may experience serious adverse events.  
WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS should be 
included in labeling to describe the risks of 
renal and hepatic adverse events, and 
thrombocytopenia and coagulation 
abnormalities, and to provide recommendations 
for monitoring.  I also recommend informing 
prescribers about hyponatremia, decreased 
growth, and possible vasculitis in WARNINGS 
and PRECAUTIONS. 
8
Reference ID: 4028770

===PAGE 8===
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA 209531
Spinraza (nusinersen)
2.
Background
This memorandum summarizes the primary concerns from the safety review, conducted by Dr. 
Evelyn Mentari, of the nusinersen NDA 209531 and provides my conclusions and 
recommendations regarding the safety findings and management of the risks.       

The product information and the applicant’s proposals  
Nusinersen (also known as ISIS 396443) is a 2’-O-(2-methoxyethyl)  antisense oligonucleotide 
(a phosphorothioate oligonucleotide).   The proposed indication is treatment of SMA.  The 
proposed dose in patients older than 2 years of age is 12 mg given as is a loading dose on Days 
 followed by a maintenance dose given every 4 months.  
 
 
 Nusinersen is not 
approved for any other indication in the United States.  

Therapeutic context 
SMA is a neuromuscular disease characterized by degeneration of spinal cord neurons, 
resulting in progressive muscular atrophy and weakness.  A deletion or mutation in the SMN1 
gene that is responsible for the majority of SMN protein production causes SMA.  A 
deficiency of SMN protein results in degeneration of the motor neurons in the anterior horn of 
the spinal cord.  According to the Sponsor, SMN2 is normally responsible for a small amount 
of SMN protein products.  According to the Sponsor, nusinersen binds to splicing specific 
sequence of the SMN2 pre-mRNA that the Sponsor states is present in all patients with spinal 
muscular atrophy (SMA), increasing the amount of full-length protein produced from the 
SMN2 gene.     Infants with the worst form of SMA die within a few weeks of birth.  Patients 
with all other forms are asymptomatic following birth, with more severe disease associated 
with earlier symptom onset and less protein production.  SMA is classified as follows as 
shown in Dr. Mentari’s review:
Table 1. Clinical Classification of Spinal Muscular Atrophy
SMA = Spinal Muscular Atrophy
Source: Wang CH, et al. Consensus Statement for Standard of Care in Spinal Muscular Atrophy. J Child Neurol 2007 22: 
1027
The Sponsor characterizes patients in this NDA as symptomatic (infantile onset and later 
onset) and presymptomatic, genetically diagnosed SMA.  Data are from 10 clinical studies that 
enrolled newborns up to aged 15 years at first dose with a genetic diagnosis of 5q SMA and 
multiple copies of the SMN2 gene.
7
Reference ID: 4028770
(b) (4)
COPYRIGHT MATERIAL WITHHELD
(b) (4)

===PAGE 9===
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA 209531
Spinraza (nusinersen)
SMA occurs in 8.5 to 10.3 per 100,000 live births, with similar prevalence reported in the US.        
Therapy is supportive.  There are no approved treatments for SMA in the US.       

Regulatory background and marketing history
Orphan drug designation and fast track designation were granted in 2011.  With respect to 
nusinersen drug safety in humans, according to minutes from the September 15, 2015, Type C 
meeting, the Sponsor was told that a thorough QT/QTc study would not be required before 
NDA filing, but that the Sponsor must ensure that patients are adequately monitored during 
drug development, and the possible need for such a study post-approval would remain a 
review issue.
There is no foreign marketing experience with nusinersen. 
 
 
3.
Product Quality  
  Please refer to the CMC review.
4.
Nonclinical Pharmacology/Toxicology
Please refer to reviews of Drs. Ed Fisher and Lois Freed. 
5.
Clinical Pharmacology
Please refer to the Clinical Pharmacology review.  The following information is primarily 
from the Clinical Overview and Summary of Clinical Pharmacology Studies in the nusinersen 
NDA submission and reflects the findings most relevant to safety.  

Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics were evaluated in infants and children with 
SMA aged 8 days to 15 years at screening

Dose was based on CSF volume which increases from birth to 2 years and, according 
to the Sponsor, then remains constant

Elimination half-life in human CSF is approximately 135-177 days; steady state 
concentrations were reached within 24 months.

Nusinersen appears in the peripheral circulation with Cmax in the peripheral 
circulation occurring approximately 2 to 6 hours after intrathecal administration; the 
sponsor states that the plasma half- life is up to 86.5 days.
6.
Clinical Microbiology 
Not applicable.  
8
Reference ID: 4028770
(b) (4)

===PAGE 10===
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA 209531
Spinraza (nusinersen)
7.
Clinical/Statistical- Efficacy
Please refer to Dr. Rainer Paine’s review of efficacy.
8.
Safety
8.1 Safety Review Approach
Dr. Mentari’s review used the following pools in the analysis of nusinersen clinical safety 
where the numbers shown represent the number of subjects in each group (as shown in Dr. 
Mentari’s review):
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety Table 3
 
The treatment periods were 394 days (13 months)  for the Controlled Study CS3B (infantile 
onset, Pool B), 29 months for Pool A, 45 months for Study CS3A (open label), 29 months for 
SM201, and up to 36 months for the studies in Pool E (later onset).   
Dosing was as follows:
Study
Nusinersen dose
Dosing Days
SM201
12 mg
1, 15, 29, 64, 183, 302, 421, 540, 659, and 778
CS3B
12 mg
1, 15, 29, 64, 183, and 302
CS3A
12 mg (except Cohort 1 that 
had 6 mg loading dose (LD) 
followed by 12 mg 
maintenance doses)
LD Days 1, 15, 85
Maintenance doses on Days 253, 379, 505, 631, 757, 883, 1009, 1135, and 1261
CS1
1, 3, 6, or 9 mg 
Single dose
CS2
Cohorts 1,2, 4: 3, 6, or 12 mg
Cohort 3: 9 mg
Cohorts 1, 2, 4: Days 1, 29, and 85
Cohort 3: Days 1 and 85
CS10
6 or 9 mg
Single dose
CS12
12 mg
1, 169, 351, 533
9
Reference ID: 4028770

===PAGE 11===
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA 209531
Spinraza (nusinersen)
8.2 Review of the Safety Database
Adequacy of the drug exposure experience (i.e., the safety database)
A total of 173 patients were exposed to nusinersen in the development program.    The table below, 
from Dr. Mentari’s review, shows duration of exposure.   
Nusinersen Safety Population. Duration of Exposure 
Number of patients exposed to nusinersen:
Total
 >=6 months
 >=12 months
>=18 
months
 >=24 
months 
Controlled study subjectsa 
80
41
19
0
0
All subjects
173
120
83
62
54
a Study CS3B subjects
Source: Submission to NDA 209531 on 10/25/2016
In the controlled trial and in Pool A, the nusinersen dose was  12mg.  Pool E subjects received 
varying nusinersen doses ranging from 1-12 mg.  
In the Controlled Study CS3B, subjects were males and females  ≤ 7 months (210 days) of age 
at screening. Exclusion criteria included  “clinically-significant abnormalities in hematology or 
clinical chemistry parameters, as assessed by the Site Investigator, at screening that would 
render the subject unsuitable for inclusion”.  
  
The mean age at first dose was 22 days for pre-symptomatic infantile onset subjects in Pool A,  
161 days  in Pool C symptomatic infantile onset subjects in controlled and uncontrolled 
studies, and 7 years for the later onset subjects.  Approximately half the patients were male 
(49% in infantile onset, 46% in later onset, and 50% in all treated subjects).  Approximately 
80% of subjects were white.   Fifty-six percent of infantile onset subjects, 100% of later onset, 
and 73% overall were from North America.  Dr. Mentari notes that in Study CS3B, 
characteristics of nusinersen and sham control subjects were similar.   
  
I agree with Dr. Mentari that because SMA is a rare disease, the overall subject exposure and 
demographics are acceptable.    Dr. Mentari notes that because all subjects in CS3B were less 
than 1 year old at first dose, adverse events which require self-reporting from the subject could 
not be assessed in the controlled data.   
8.3 Adequacy of Applicant’s Clinical Safety Assessments
Dr. Mentari finds that the submission was well organized and that coding of adverse events 
was appropriate.  She notes the following deficiencies in laboratory assessments in the 
development program: no quantitative urine protein measurements, serum bicarbonate levels 
were routinely evaluated, coagulation laboratory parameters not measured in controlled trials 
and only measured post baseline in Study CS2, and GGT was not measured to assess hepatic 
toxicity.  
8.4 Safety Results
10
Reference ID: 4028770

===PAGE 12===
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA 209531
Spinraza (nusinersen)
Deaths
In the controlled Study CS3B, deaths occurred in 12 of 80 (15%) of nusinersen-treated 
subjects compared to 13 of 41 (32%) sham procedure control subjects.  In all studies (Pool F), 
16 of 173 (9%) nusinersen-treated subjects died.  Dr. Mentari notes that all deaths occurred in 
subjects with symptomatic infantile-onset SMA and I agree that all appeared related to 
complications of SMA (mostly respiratory disorders or cardio-respiratory arrest) except for 
Study CS3B Subject 2037-5167.   Study CS3B Subject 2037-5167 had an unclear cause of 
death, but had been hospitalized twice within 2 months of death for “weight stagnation”, and 2 
weeks prior to her death, weight was in the 2nd percentile for age and sex (and Dr. Mentari 
notes that growth failure is a universal problem in non-sitting SMA patients).      
Serious adverse events  
Please refer to Dr. Mentari’s review for details regarding serious adverse events (SAEs). 
Overall, there were fewer SAEs for nusinersen than for sham control, although some specific 
SAEs (atelectasis, aspiration, and pneumonia and other lower respiratory infections) did occur 
more frequently on nusinersen than sham control as discussed below. 
Dr. Mentari identified no adverse events of aplastic anemia, pancytopenia, acute pancreatitis, 
Stevens Johnson Syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, or drug reaction with eosinophilia and 
systemic symptoms (DRESS) in the clinical development program.
In controlled study CS3B, 33 of 41 (80%) sham control subjects and 56 of 80 (70%) nusinersen 
subjects had SAEs.   In all nusinersen subjects (Pool F), 84 of 173 (49%) patients had a SAE.  Dr. 
Mentari notes that most of the SAEs were manifestations of spinal muscular atrophy.  I agree with 
her that the lower incidence of SAEs in Pool F is likely because Pool F includes subjects with pre-
symptomatic or later onset SMA who generally have less severe manifestations of SMA than the 
subjects in Study CS3B.  
The system organ class (SOC) with the most SAEs was Respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal 
disorders (58% of 80 nusinersen subjects vs 63% of 41 control subjects).  Dr. Mentari  shows that 
incidences of individual Preferred Terms in this SOC for nusinersen were generally similar to or 
less than the control group in Study CS3B, except for SAEs coded to atelectasis which occurred in 
11 of 80 (14%) of nusinersen subjects compared to 2 of 41 (5%) control subjects.  Aspiration 
SAEs were also more common in nusinersen subjects (4%) compared to 0 control subjects but Dr. 
Mentari notes that aspiration adverse events were less common in nusinersen subjects vs sham 
controls.  The basis for atelectasis could be due to inhalation anesthesia for the procedure, although 
few subjects in either treatment group (8% for nusinersen vs 5% for sham control) received 
inhalation anesthesia in Study CS3B.  I agree with Dr. Mentari that the increase in atelectasis could 
also be due to an increase in pneumonia SAEs in the nusinersen-treated subjects compared to 
control in Study CS3B.      
Forty of 80 (50%) nusinersen treated subjects compared to 15 of 41 (37%) sham control subjects in 
Study CS3B had SAEs in the Infections and infestations SOC.  Dr. Mentari notes that pneumonia 
and other lower respiratory infection SAEs were more common nusinersen subjects (29 of 80, 
36%) compared to sham control subjects (9 of 41, 22%).  
11
Reference ID: 4028770

===PAGE 13===
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA 209531
Spinraza (nusinersen)
The incidence of Cardiac Disorders SAEs was similar in nusinersen subjects (9 of 80, 11%) 
compared to sham control (5 of 41, 12%) in Study CS3B.  These included cardio-respiratory arrest, 
cardiac arrest, cyanosis, and ventricular tachycardia, all of which occurred less frequently in 
nusinersen subjects than in control, and I agree with Dr. Mentari that these events likely were 
related to cardio-respiratory compromise in patients with advanced symptomatic SMA.   
Seven of 80 (9%) nusinersen subjects compared to 4 of 41 (10%) sham control subjects had SAEs 
in the Metabolism and nutrition disorders SOC in Study CS3B.  As Dr. Mentari notes, the most 
frequent SAEs in this SOC, Weight gain poor, Failure to thrive, Feeding disorder of infancy or 
early childhood , Feeding intolerance) are common issues in SMA patients.  An SAE of 
hyponatremia was reported in Pool F, as discussed under Laboratory Findings on page 14, below.  
Six of 80 nusinersen (8%) subjects compared to 3 of 41 (7%) sham control subjects had SAEs 
coded to the Gastrointestinal Disorders SOC.  Dr. Mentari shows a slight imbalance in SAEs 
of vomiting (4% in nusinersen vs 2% for sham control) and dysphagia (2% in nusinersen vs 0 
in sham control) but I agree that these are common SMA-related issues.    
SAEs coded to the Nervous system disorders SOC are discussed under Evaluations of Submission-
Specific Safety Issues, page 18, below.  
One SAE was coded to the Immune system disorders SOC, but was drug hypersensitivity with lip 
swelling and hives considered likely related to fentanyl in a patient who had 5 subsequent doses of 
nusinersen with no event of drug hypersensitivity.  
One SAE was coded to the Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders SOC and that was in 
the all nusinersen subjects pool F (<1%).   Subject CS3A 1833-2303 was a 31 month old male who 
developed vomiting, diarrhea, and fever on Study Day 756.  He received his 8th nusinersen dose on 
Study Day 757.  He developed symptoms of synovitis on Day 
 and was treated with an IV 
bolus of sodium chloride and ibuprofen with no further episodes of pain.  On Day 
 he was 
discharged to home.  I agree with Dr. Mentari that the etiology is unclear but could be due either to 
a viral etiology or drug-related.  Dr. Mentari notes that the subject did not test positive for anti-
drug antibodies.  
One SAE coded to the Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders SOC CS3B Subject 1999-5251) 
in which the subject had intermittent skin inflammation near the right eye which was 
intermittent and had occurred prior to the first dose. I agree with Dr. Mentari that a role for 
nusinersen is unlikely.  
Study CS3B Subject 1780-5032 had an SAE coded to the preferred term Shock in the Vascular 
disorders SOC.  Dr. Mentari reports that the event was a result of advanced respiratory disease 
related to SMA, with hypoxic brain injury and death occurring after pneumonia and 
uncompensated shock.  
Dr. Mentari notes that her review of the ongoing blinded aggregate data for ongoing studies shows 
SAEs similar to those reported in the NDA submission.  
12
Reference ID: 4028770
(b) (6)
(b) (6)

===PAGE 14===
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA 209531
Spinraza (nusinersen)
In summary, SAEs that occurred more frequently in nusinersen subjects than in sham control 
subjects included events of atelectasis, aspiration, and pneumonia and other lower respiratory 
infections.  Other events occurred with similar frequency and appeared related to 
manifestations of SMA.    
Discontinuations due to AEs
Dr. Mentari notes that in subjects with infantile-onset SMA in Study CS3B and CS3A, all events 
leading to discontinuation were a result of death that occurred before the next scheduled dose and 
that there were no events leading to treatment discontinuation in subjects with Pre-symptomatic or 
later onset SMA.    
Significant Adverse Events
In addition to SAEs and significant AEs discussed under submission-specific safety issues, Dr. 
Mentari notes a severe AE of myalgia lasting 2 hours on study Day 2 in a 3 y.o. female (Study CS2 
Subject 1775-2208) and a severe AE of hypertension starting on Study Day 330 and lasting for 54 
days in a 15 month old male (Study CS3B Subject 2000-5203).  She notes that limited information 
was provided and the causes are unclear.   
Treatment Emergent Adverse Events and Adverse Reactions
Dr. Mentari shows the adverse events that occurred in at least 5% of nusinersen subjects with a 
risk difference of 5% or at least 2 times as frequently than in control subjects.  Those adverse 
events are shown in the table below, extracted from Dr. Mentari’s review:  
Adverse Event Preferred Term
Nusinersen 12 mg
N=80
n (%)
Sham Procedure Control
N=41
n (%)
Upper respiratory infection 
35 (44)
16 (39)
Lower respiratory infection
34 (43)
12 (29)
Constipation
24 (30)
9 (22)
Teething
11 (14)
3 (7)
Upper respiratory tract congestion
5 (6)
1 (2)
Aspiration 
4 (5)
1 (2)
Ear infection 
4 (5)
1 (2)
Scoliosis 
4 (5)
1 (2)
Sources: 10/17/2016 submission to NDA 209531 and Summary of Clinical Safety dataset ADAE (submitted 9/23/2016)
Upper respiratory infection and lower respiratory infection include combined terms that were 
related.  Please refer to Dr. Mentari’s review for the Preferred Terms that were combined.  I 
agree with this approach to avoid splitting terms.  
Dr. Mentari notes that Study CS3B subjects were less than 1 year old at first dose and were 
unable to verbally report adverse events reported in later onset SMA subjects (Pool E, age 
range of 2-16 y.o. at study entry) that included headache (34%), back pain (52% including 
back pain and puncture site pain), and post-lumbar puncture syndrome (38%) that occurred 
within 5 days of lumbar puncture.   Overall in Pool E, headache occurred in 50%, and back 
pain alone and post-lumbar puncture syndrome each occurred in 41%.  
 
13
Reference ID: 4028770

===PAGE 15===
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA 209531
Spinraza (nusinersen)
Laboratory Findings   
Please refer to Dr. Mentari’s review of laboratory findings.  I discuss laboratory results 
associated with renal toxicity as adverse events of special interest, as does Dr. Mentari.  
Clinical Chemistry
Dr. Mentari shows the incidences of abnormal (high and low) electrolyte measurements for 
sodium, potassium, chloride, and glucose (and mean changes in glucose from baseline) from 
Study CS3B, that appear to be generally similar for nusinersen compared to control, and she 
notes that high blood glucose levels, as seen in nusinersen subjects (31%) and in control 
subjects (39%), have been described in SMA patients.  She notes that serum bicarbonate was 
not routinely measured in the controlled study CS3B, and that low serum bicarbonate levels 
were seen in 2 of the 3 (67%) nusinersen subjects compared to 0 of 1 sham control subjects in 
whom it was measured in Study CS3B.  In all nusinersen subjects, treatment emergent low 
serum bicarbonate occurred in 32 of 48 (67%) nusinersen subjects.   Dr. Mentari notes that low 
serum bicarbonate levels have been described in SMA patients, but she also notes, as 
discussed under renal toxicity, that low serum bicarbonate is characteristic of proximal tubular 
dysfunction.  I discuss laboratory results associated with renal toxicity (urine dipstick and 
serum bicarbonate) as adverse events of special interest, as does Dr. Mentari.  
Dr. Mentari does note that  1 of 59 (2%) nusinersen subjects and 0 of 28 sham subjects had 
treatment-emergent low serum sodium in Study CS3B and 6 of 151 (4%) of all treated 
nusinersen subjects had at least 1 treatment-emergent low serum sodium measurement.  Three 
subjects had a treatment-emergent serum sodium less than 130 mmol/L; in two of the subjects 
the cause was likely not related to nusinersen1.  CS3A Subject 1776-2305 had a serious 
adverse event (SAE) of hyponatremia, with serum sodium levels of 94 mmol/L2 to 103 
mmol/L from Days 89-232.  Lethargy was noted on Day 227.  The subject required sodium 
supplementation for 14 months after the initial hyponatremia diagnosis while nusinersen 
continued to be given.  I agree with Dr. Mentari that factors of oral suctioning, excess 
sweating, and maternal breast milk that was low in sodium were not likely sufficient to explain 
the degree of hyponatremia.   Dr. Mentari notes that hyponatremia has been reported with 
some drugs given intrathecally but not when they have been given intravenously, and that 
could suggest a direct central effect.  A mechanism for hyponatremia with intrathecally 
administered nusinersen has not been evaluated.  I agree with Dr. Mentari’s recommendation 
to add information related to hyponatremia to Warnings and Precautions, and to recommend 
checking blood sodium level prior to nusinersen administration.   
Hepatic Laboratory Measurements
1 These 2 subjects with hyponatremia had non-drug related causes corresponding to the dates of low sodium 
measurement: CS3A Subject 1776-2306  corresponding to the dates of low sodium measurement had pulmonary 
infections and pyrexia and treatment with levetiracetam that has been associated with hyponatremia; CS3B 
Subject 2010-5096 had pneumonia and weight loss.
2 A laboratory error cannot be ruled out for the profoundly low level of 95 mmol/L.  However, severe 
hyponatremia was observed again with a level of 103 mmol/L and the need for supplementation.
14
Reference ID: 4028770

===PAGE 16===
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA 209531
Spinraza (nusinersen)
The liver is a target organ of nusinersen because, like most antisense oligonucleotides, 
nusinersen is deposited in the liver.  Because it is deposited in the liver, nusinersen has the 
potential for hepatotoxicity.
Dr. Mentari shows that in Study CS3B, the frequency of elevated liver enzymes (ALT, AST, 
alkaline phosphatase, and bilirubin) was comparable to findings in sham procedure control 
subjects.  She notes that in all clinical studies, no nusinersen subject had a post-treatment AST 
level ≥ 3 times the upper limit of normal.  
She identifies 1 subject (Study CS3B Subject 2010-5096) with an isolated post-treatment ALT 
level  ≥ 3 times the upper limit of normal at 3 hours after administration of the 5th nusinersen 
dose; AST was slightly elevated (< 2x) and alkaline phosphatase, total and direct BR were 
within normal limits;  repeat ALT 1 week later was within normal limits.  I agree with Dr. 
Mentari that elevated ALT is possibly related to nusinersen, but that it could also be due to 
tissue injury during lumbar puncture.  Study CS3B Subject 1776-5097 had a post-treatment 
ALT level  ≥ 5 times the upper limit of normal in the setting of Tylenol administration, 96 
days after the 6th nusinersen dose, and that reportedly resolved within 15 days.  The amount of 
acetaminophen, a potentially hepatotoxic drug, was not provided.  No additional doses of 
nusinersen were scheduled after the high ALT measurement.  It is not possible to assess the 
role of either acetaminophen in this case, and a role for nusinersen cannot be ruled out.
Dr. Mentari states that there were no cases of Hy’s law drug-induced liver injury (ALT 
increases ≥3 x ULN with concomitant elevations in total bilirubin ≥2 x ULN) during treatment 
in nusinersen clinical studies.
Dr. Mentari notes that liver enzymes most frequently evaluated (AST, ALT, and LDH) can be 
elevated in patients with SMA, and that with muscle degeneration, these enzymes can be 
released from skeletal muscle.  Because the liver is a target organ for nusinersen and other 
antisense oligonucleotides, and because there are 2 cases of elevated ALT for which a role for 
nusinersen cannot be ruled out, I agree with Dr. Mentari’s recommendation to include 
information about the potential for hepatotoxicity in Warning and Precautions in labeling.  I 
agree with her recommendation that gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT)  be used to evaluate 
for liver toxicity as it  is produced primarily in liver rather than skeletal muscle, and that liver 
tests including GGT be evaluated at baseline and before each maintenance dose.    
Hematology measurements
Thrombocytopenia
As noted by Dr. Mentari, thrombocytopenia occurred more frequently in nusinersen subjects 
compared to sham control subjects in the controlled trial CS3B:  6 of 56 (11%) nusinersen 
subjects had a platelet level below the lower limit of normal (LLN), compared to 0 of 28 sham 
control subjects.  In all nusinersen subjects 3 of 145 (2%) had thrombocytopenia < 100 x 
109/L.  No subject had a platelet count < 50 X 109/L, and there were no adverse events related 
to thrombocytopenia.  
15
Reference ID: 4028770

===PAGE 17===
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA 209531
Spinraza (nusinersen)
Dr. Mentari notes that thrombocytopenia has been seen with other oligonucleotides.  She notes 
that for drisapersen, in particular, mild thrombocytopenia occurred with early exposure but 
severe thrombocytopenia occurred with longer exposures.  Thrombocytopenia  and adverse 
consequences may be of particular concern with intrathecal administration that will be the 
route of administration for nusinersen.  I agree with Dr. Mentari’s recommendation that 
thrombocytopenia be described in Warnings and Precautions and I agree with her 
recommendation for checking complete blood count prior to each nusinersen administration.  
Coagulation Laboratory Measurements
Dr. Mentari notes that prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) has been 
described with other phosphorothioate oligonucleotides.  She notes that the data for 
coagulation laboratory tests for nusinersen are limited and that in the controlled clinical trial 
they were measured sporadically.  She does, however, note that 10 of 53 (19%) of all 
nusinersen subjects in whom these parameters were measured had shift from baseline to a high 
aPTT.  I agree with Dr. Mentari that given the risk of bleeding complications with lumbar 
puncture, patients should have coagulation laboratory testing prior to each nusinersen 
administration.  
Other Hematology Laboratory Measurements
Dr. Mentari shows that shifts in other hematology laboratory measurements for WBC 
decreased, lymphocyte count decreased, neutrophil count decreased, or anemia were similar 
for nusinersen and control groups in Study CS3B.  
Vital Signs  
Please refer to Dr. Mentari’s review of vital sign changes that were measured at screening, 
visits for doses 1-3 and 5 (pre-dose, post-dose, and 1 day after dosing), at visits scheduled for 
dosing day 302 (the last dose), and at Study Day 120 and Study Day 394 (follow up visit) in 
Study CS3B. Dr. Mentari that shows that vital signs meeting outlier criteria post-baseline were 
similar for nusinersen and sham control for systolic and diastolic blood pressure.  She shows 
that post-treatment decreases in pulse rate > 15 bpm or > 30 bpm from baseline were more 
frequent in nusinersen subject compared to sham control.  However, there was no imbalance in 
post-treatment low heart rates outside of the range of normal.  Fewer nusinersen subjects 
compared sham subjects (6% vs 10%) had an adverse event coded to the preferred term 
bradycardia.  She notes that short term variations in heart rate are part of normal homeostatic 
mechanisms.  
Electrocardiograms (ECGs)  
ECGs were obtained at the following times:
Study CS3B: Screening, Day 2 (dose was on Day 1), post-dose on Day 29, Day 70, and Day 
394
Study CS1: Screening, 4-6 hours post-dose on Day 1, 1 week post-dose Days 29 and  85, 
follow-up Days 169 and 253
Study CS2: Screening; 1 week post Days 1, 29, and 85 doses; follow-up Days 169 and 253
Study CS10: Screening, 4-6 hours post-dose on Day 1, follow-up Days 8 and 85
Study CS12: Screening, 4-6 hours post-dose on Day 1, follow-up Days 442 and 715
16
Reference ID: 4028770

===PAGE 18===
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA 209531
Spinraza (nusinersen)
ECGs were centrally read.  Dr. Mentari notes that in Study CS3B, 5 subjects (8%) in the 
nusinersen group and non in the sham-controlled group shifted from ECGs that were 
qualitatively read as normal or unknown at baseline to abnormal, clinically significant post-
baseline.  She reviews the findings (one with 2 subsequent normal echocardiograms; 1 with 
findings consistent with pericarditis on 1 ECG that was normal 9 days later;  one with “right 
atrial enlargement and likely benign ventricular hypertrophy” on the day of the 3rd dose with 
no treatment or additional work-up reported and no follow-up ECG provided;  and one 
consistent with probably right ventricular hypertrophy with no treatment reported and no 
follow-up ECGs provided).  One subject (CS3B 2037-5063) had a prolonged QT interval.  I 
agree with Dr. Mentari that the first 4 cases do not represent clinically significant cardiac 
disease or are of unclear clinical significance.   QT prolongation is discussed below.  
For evaluation of QT interval, in Study CS3B, Dr. Mentari notes that 4 of 80 (5%) nusinersen 
subjects had a QTcf above 500 msec and an increase of > 60 msec from baseline compared to 
0 sham control subjects.  She notes that no subjects from other studies had these changes in 
QTcF.  The Sponsor notes (p. 67, Summary of Clinical Safety) that of the 4 subjects in the 
nusinersen group with QTcF value > 500 and a change of >60 msec, 1 subject had an AE of 
cardiopulmonary arrest on Day 112; the subject’s most recent study exposure prior to the event 
was on Day 70, and the abnormal ECG was obtained on Day 29. The subject recovered and 
continued in the study, with last exposure on Day 183. The Sponsor states that the 3 other 
subjects did not have an event of this nature or any other cardiovascular event reported.
The Sponsor states that the ECG and cardiovascular AE data are consistent with the 
observation of no biologically meaningful changes in hERG function noted among 7 antisense 
oligonucleotides tested .    A thorough QT study was not performed.    A consult from Dr. 
Christine Garnett from the QT IRT regarding the QT findings noted the difficulty in 
interpreting the data and noted that prolonged QTc interval in individual patients could have 
also occurred for reasons related to concomitant medications, the underlying disease or 
associated adverse events related to the disease.  Dr. Garnett recommended that the potential 
for nusinersen to delay cardiac repolarization be evaluated in a dedicated QT study and that if  
nusinersen cannot be given to heathy volunteers, high quality 12-lead ECGs (replicate, digital 
ECGs) can be incorporated in on-going controlled clinical trials in patients to characterize the 
QTc interval.  Based on DNP’s assessment of benefit-risk of nusinersen in this patient 
population, she wrote that it may be reasonable to design the QT study to rule out large effects 
(>20 ms) on QTc interval in patients.Dr. Garnett recommended language describing the QTc 
data for Section 12.2.  As a result of this recommendation, as noted by Dr. Mentari, DNP 
recommended to the Sponsor on December 8, 2016, that ongoing and future studies of 
nusinersen should incorporate high quality 12-lead ECGS (replicate, digital ECGs) to 
characterize the QT interval, and that any QTc greater than 500 ms should be repeated. 
Immunogenicity  
Plasma samples from all 7 clinical studies were analyzed for anti-drug antibody (ADA) presence.  
Using an analysis with a 1% false positive rate, Dr. Mentari notes that 5 nusinersen-exposed 
subjects were identified as having an ADA-positive results, with a rate ranging from 1-5% of 
patients in a given study being ADA positive.   In only 1 of those cases was the response 
17
Reference ID: 4028770

===PAGE 19===
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA 209531
Spinraza (nusinersen)
considered to be persistent.  Dr. Mentari reviewed the adverse events for the 5 subjects and finds 
that they included manifestations of SMA and complications of lumbar puncture and she does not 
find an apparent effect of ADA development on the adverse events in these subjects.     
Evaluations of submission-specific safety issues 
Renal toxicity
Dr. Mentari notes that the kidney is a target organ for nusinersen, as observed for other 
antisense oligonucleotides, with concentrations in human kidney similar to those in the lumbar 
spinal cord.     
Dr. Mentari notes no renal toxicity adverse events in the clinical studies (she notes that 1 event 
of urine output decreased was related to hypoxic cardiac arrest and rhinovirus infection and not 
to nusinersen).  In terms of serum markers of renal function, Dr. Mentari notes no subjects 
with treatment-emergent high levels of serum creatinine (that may have limited value because 
of reduced muscle mass in SMA patients) and no subjects with treatment-emergent high levels 
of the biomarker cystatin C.  
Dr. Mentari does find treatment-emergent elevated urine protein (to trace level or higher) in 17 
of 51 (33%) nusinersen subjects  compared to 5/25 (20%) sham control subjects in Study 
CS3B, and in later onset SMA subjects (Pool E) in 36 of 52 (69%) nusinersen subjects.  She 
notes that urine protein was measured semi-quantitatively with urine dipstick testing, and that 
the results are predictive of significant proteinuria.  She also notes that, based on animal 
studies and findings with other phosphorothioate oligonucleotides, the proteinuria is likely 
tubular in origin, and that the standard urine dipstick primarily detects albumin but is relatively 
insensitive to constituents of tubular proteinuria such that urine dipstick findings may be 
falsely negative.  Dr. Mentari also notes that treatment-emergent low serum bicarbonate, 
although not available from the control group in Study CS3B, occurred in 32 of 48 (67%) of 
nusinersen subjects in whom it was measured.  She notes that although metabolic acidosis has 
been described in SMA patients, low serum bicarbonate levels are characteristic of proximal 
renal tubular acidosis, and that proteinuria and low serum bicarbonate are seen with 
generalized proximal tubular dysfunction (Fanconi syndrome), although other features of 
Fanconi syndrome (hypophosphatemia, glycosuria) not reported in Study CS3B and were 
infrequent in the clinical studies.
Dr. Mentari notes that proteinuria is a cause of progressive kidney damage.  I agree with her 
recommendation to describe the risk of proteinuria in Warnings and Precautions and I agree 
with her recommendation for quantitative spot urine protein testing at baseline and prior to 
each nusinersen maintenance dose in the proposed prescribing information and in ongoing and 
future studies, as well as testing for serum electrolytes, including bicarbonate, prior to each 
dose3.  
Neurologic toxicity
3 The Division of Neurology Products conveyed this recommendation regarding ongoing and future studies to the 
Sponsor on 12/2/16.  
18
Reference ID: 4028770

===PAGE 20===
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA 209531
Spinraza (nusinersen)
Dr. Mentari notes that neurologic toxicity can occur with intrathecal drug delivery as a result 
of active drug, excipients, buffers, solubility enhancers or preservatives.  She notes that the 
nonclinical review of Dr. Edward Fisher describes findings of neurotoxicity  including 
hippocampal vacuolization and necrotic cells, as well as possible treatment-related changes in 
learning test performance in juvenile cynomolgus monkeys.
Dr. Mentari presents adverse events in the Nervous System Disorders SOC from controlled 
Study CS3B and in all nusinersen subjects.  In the controlled study, adverse events occurred in 
10% of nusinersen subjects vs 5% of control subjects; individual adverse events in the 
controlled study were too few to determine a relationship to study drug.  Dr. Mentari notes that 
3% of nusinersen-treated subjects in CS3B had serious adverse events (SAEs) in this SOC, 
compared to none of the sham procedure controlled subjects; I agree with her that these SAEs 
(brain injury in CS3B subject 1780-5032 with chronic respiratory failure in the setting of 
advanced SMA, hypoxic-ischaemic encephalopathy in CS3B subject 2000-5145 after 
aspiration) were likely related to complications of SMA.  She also notes one SAE of seizure in 
Pool F (all nusinersen treated subjects); that is CS3A subject 1776-2306 with possible 
vasculitis, discussed below under the section on Rash and Possible Vasculitis.  
Dr. Mentari notes that headache was the most common adverse event preferred term in the 
Nervous System Disorders SOC, reported in 50% of later onset SMA nusinersen-treated 
subjects, of which 68% reported headache within 5 days of lumbar puncture and is likely 
related to lumbar puncture4.  She notes that the controlled study data do not capture such 
events that rely on reporting from the subjects themselves as that study only included infantile-
onset SMA subjects.  She notes one patient (subject CS3A 1776-2305) with lethargy in the 
setting of hyponatremia (discussed under hyponatremia).  She notes one patient with dyslexia 
associated with attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder and I agree with her it is unclear 
whether nusinersen could have played a role.  She identifies neurologic AEs that are likely to 
be complications of lumbar puncture or related treatment (hyperreflexia, hypotonia, CSF 
leakage, and aphonia), and neurologic AEs that are common manifestations of SMA (AEs 
coded to preferred terms Muscle contractions involuntary and Drooling, AEs of syncope and 
tremor) and an AE of syncope thought due to heat.  
I agree with Dr. Mentari that because of the potential neurotoxic effect of nusinersen, it is 
reasonable to include the nonclinical neurotoxicity information in Warnings and Precautions, 
particularly given the potential for long-term use in some children.  I also agree with her 
recommendation to pursue enhanced pharmacovigilance regarding neurotoxicity if the NDA is 
approved.  
Safety Issues Related to Lumbar Puncture  
Nusinersen is given intrathecally.  Dr. Mentari shows that ultrasound guidance was used for 
administration in 99% of patients in CS3B and that some patients had inhalation anesthesia 
and sedation.  The proposed label includes language regarding intrathecal administration, 
imaging techniques, and sedation.   
4 The International Classification of headache Disorders Post-dural puncture headache is considered to be 
headache occurring within 5 days of lumbar puncture.
19
Reference ID: 4028770

===PAGE 21===
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA 209531
Spinraza (nusinersen)
Dr. Mentari shows that among the most frequent adverse events in the 120 hours following 
nusinersen injection were back pain, post lumbar puncture syndrome, headache, vomiting, and 
nausea, and as discussed under neurotoxicity, the data do not come primarily from the 
controlled trial but from the open-label studies in later onset SMA subjects because infantile 
SMA subjects are generally unable to report these adverse events.  She also notes that 
complications of anesthesia that were more common in nusinersen subjects in Study CS3B 
were atelectasis that occurred in 11 of 80 (14%) nusinersen patients compared to 2 of 41 (5%) 
sham procedure control subjects.  
As discussed above under Laboratory Findings/Hematology measurements, on p. 15, 
thrombocytopenia occurred after administration of nusinersen and has been observed with 
other antisense oligonucleotides.  Dr. Mentari notes that 5 of 173 (3%) subjects had 6 events 
that were hemorrhagic complications of attempted or successful lumbar puncture (all but one 
were in Study SM201 and were 2 months of age or less at the time of study entry).  I agree 
with Dr. Mentari that because of the risk of thrombocytopenia from nusinersen and potential 
coagulation abnormalities (p. 15), patients may be at increased risk for adverse reactions after 
lumbar puncture for intrathecal administration of nusinersen.  I agree with her 
recommendation to advise prescribers to perform a complete blood count and coagulation 
laboratory testing prior to lumbar puncture.  
Rash and Possible Vasculitis
Dr. Mentari notes that pro-inflammatory effects of antisense nucleotides have been described 
in the published literature.  She has identified 3 cases of possible vasculitis with nusinersen: 
CS3B Subject 2010-5026, a 14 month old male who developed suspected vasculitis on right 
hand and on left hand 10 months (on the day of the 6th dose) and 11 months, respectively, after 
first dose (no biopsy) that resolved after 3 months with no further nusinersen administered 
because it was the end of the study; CS3B Subject 2002-5370, a 13 month old male developed 
red macular lesions on forearm, leg, and foot over a period of 8 weeks (8 months after first 
dose and 2 months after fifth dose) that ulcerated and scabbed over; left leg skin biopsy with 
post-op diagnosis of vasculitis vs vascular occlusion, but biopsy report included a comment 
that “there are no features of vasculitis”.  He received one additional dose after the rash started.  
Lesions resolved without treatment over several months.   CS3A subject 1776-2306 was an 8 
month old male who had new onset seizures and cerebral infarction with MRI showing two 
punctate acute or subacute infarcts, 5 months after starting nusinersen (2 months after his 3rd 
dose). MRI showed two punctate acute or subacute infarcts, with no known risk factors; Dr. 
Mentari notes that vasculitis is a possible cause for cerebral infarction. 
Dr. Mentari notes that distal necrosis has been reported in SMA patients not taking nusinersen.  
She shows that the lesions described in the publications  appear to be different from those 
observed in the NDA.  I note that the cases in the literature (a total of 4 as identified by Dr. 
Mentari) and the 2 cases observed in the NDA are few and do not allow for definitive 
comparisons.  However, she notes that the published cases of distal necrosis are rare (2), while 
2 cases of possible vasculitis occurred in 173 nusinersen exposed subjects.    I agree with her 
recommendation to add information regarding these cases of possible vasculitis to Warnings 
and Precautions if nusinersen is approved.  
20
Reference ID: 4028770

===PAGE 22===
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA 209531
Spinraza (nusinersen)
Safety Analyses by Demographic Subgroups
Dr. Mentari notes that with respect to age, infants with SMA who experienced at least 1 AE 
were fewer in the < 90 days of age subgroup   (81%) than in the ≥ 90 days of age subgroup 
(92%).  The overall incidence of AEs by SOC was similarly lower in the < 90 days of age 
subgroup.  Dr. Mentari proposes that the difference is likely influenced by the presymptomatic 
infants who generally do not have AEs related to manifestations of SMA.
In later onset SMA, at least 1 AE was experienced by all subjects in each age group (< 6 y.o. 
and  ≥6 y.o.), although Dr. Mentari notes that lumbar puncture related were more commonly 
reported in the older age group than in the younger age group for (example post lumbar 
puncture syndrome that occurred in 61% of the older age group and 21% in the younger age 
group).  
Dr. Mentari notes that AE incidences were similar between subgroups characterized by sex in 
the infants and in the later-onset SMA subjects.  
Dr. Mentari notes that incidences in AEs were similar between racial subgroups of White 
(n=93) and non-White (n=20) infants with SMA.   I agree with her that the few non-White 
subjects (n=7) compared to the White subgroup (n=49) in the later onset SMA subjects limit 
meaningful comparisons.  
Specific Safety Studies/Clinical Trials
Dr. Mentari notes that no specific clinical safety studies were performed in the nusinersen 
development program.  
Additional Safety Explorations
Human Carcinogenicity or Tumor Development
Dr. Mentari notes that there were 4 subjects with AEs of benign neoplasms (benign 
submucosal vascular proliferation, skin papilloma, acrochordon , seborrheic keratosis), but 
otherwise no neoplasms were reported in the nusinersen submission.    
Human Reproduction and Pregnancy
No pregnancies were reported.  Dr. Mentari notes that there were 10 female subjects over age 
12 at the time of study entry.    
Pediatrics and Assessment of Effects on Growth
Dr. Mentari shows that in Study CS3B, nusinersen subjects had reduced growth compared to 
sham control subjects.  At Day 394 the results were as follows:
Mean change from baseline in Study CS3B
Nusinersen
Sham Control
Height/length
13 cm
21 cm
Height/length percentile for age
-26
26
Weight
3.1 kg
3.9 kg
Weight for age percentile
0
27
21
Reference ID: 4028770

===PAGE 23===
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA 209531
Spinraza (nusinersen)
  
Given the difficulty in obtaining height/length measurements, it is conceivable that these 
measurements might be easier to obtain in infants that have less mobility.  However, the 
weight change provides support for an effect on growth.  Although I note that at Day 394 these 
measurements were only recorded in 16 nusinersen subjects and 7 control subjects, these 
findings were present, particularly for the height/length assessments, at earlier time points with 
more subjects being assessed.  
I agree with Dr. Mentari’s proposal to describe this issue in labeling.    
Overdose, Drug Abuse Potential, Withdrawal, and Rebound
The FDA Controlled Substance Staff did not recommend scheduling under the Controlled 
Substances Act in a review dated 11/30/16, given that nonclinical studies do not suggest abuse 
potential, the intrathecal rout is unlikely to have potential for abuse, nusinersen does not cross the 
blood brain barrier when administered IV or SQ, and no abuse-related AEs were found in the 
clinical trials involving children and adolescents.
Dr. Mentari did not identify withdrawal or rebound adverse events in nusinersen clinical studies.  
Concerns identified through U.S. or foreign postmarket experience
Nusinersen is not yet marketed in the US or in the rest of the world.  
Potential safety issues that could cause concern when considering how the drug may be used 
in the postmarket setting
Because of relatively limited experience to date, the clinical study findings may not fully 
represent the clinical safety of nusinersen.  I agree with Dr. Mentari  that known issues will 
likely be further characterized and new issues likely identified as more patients are exposed for 
longer durations of treatment.   
9.
Advisory Committee Meeting 
Not applicable.  
10.
Pediatrics
The studies were conducted in pediatric patients.
11.
Other Relevant Regulatory Issues 
Please refer to the clinical efficacy review.
12.
Labeling 
Prescribing Information
22
Reference ID: 4028770

===PAGE 24===
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA 209531
Spinraza (nusinersen)
If nusinersen is approved, I have the following labeling recommendations:

DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION:
I suggest that recommendations for laboratory monitoring be included in labeling to 
mitigate the risk of thrombocytopenia, renal toxicity, and hepatic toxicity.   

Safety information in the BOXED WARNING, CONTRAINDICATIONS, or 
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS sections: 
1. I do not have recommendations for a BOXED WARNING or 
CONTRAINDICATIONS.  
2. If nusinersen is approved, I agree with Dr. Mentari’s suggestions to describe 
several issues in Warnings and Precautions, including thrombocytopenia and 
coagulation abnormalities, renal toxicity, hyponatremia, effect on growth, rash 
and possible vasculitis, neurologic toxicity, and hepatic effects.  
These adverse reactions are serious, causally related to the use of nusinersen (or 
in the case of hyponatremia a role for nusinersen could not be ruled out), are 
class effects in some cases (thrombocytopenia and coagulation abnormalities, 
renal toxicity, and hepatic effects), and have implications for patient 
management.   
Other Labeling 
I agree with Dr. Mentari’s recommendation to use the label Section 17 (Patient Counseling) to 
provide information for clinicians to communicate to patients and caregivers about information 
in the WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS, the need for laboratory monitoring, and symptoms 
for which patients should monitor between visits.     
13.
Postmarketing Recommendations
Risk Evaluation and Management Strategies (REMS)
REMS are required risk management plans that use risk minimization strategies beyond the 
product labeling to ensure that the product’s benefits outweigh its risks in the postmarket 
setting. 
If sufficient evidence of benefit supports approval, at this time I believe that WARNINGS and 
PRECAUTIONS including information regarding thrombocytopenia and coagulation 
abnormalities, renal toxicity, hyponatremia, effect on growth, rash and possible vasculitis, 
neurologic toxicity, and hepatic effects, as well as guidance for monitoring and administration, 
along with Patient Counseling through information conveyed in Section 17 of the label will be 
most appropriate to ensure that any benefit is not outweighed by the risk.      
Postmarketing Requirements (PMRs) and Commitments (PMCs)
23
Reference ID: 4028770

===PAGE 25===
Safety Team Leader Review
NDA 209531
Spinraza (nusinersen)
I do not have recommendations of PMRs related to safety at this time.  I suggest enhanced 
pharmacovigilance for thrombocytopenia and coagulation abnormalities, renal toxicity, serious 
hyponatremia, effect on growth, suspected vasculitis, neurologic toxicity, and hepatic effects.
PMRs related to other disciplines will include the following:
1) A study to test available ADA-positive patient samples for cross-reactivity to dsDNA, 
and to test any future ADA-positive patient samples for anti-dsDNA antibodies.
2) Nonclinical carcinogenicity study
3) Nonclinical pre- and postnatal study in rodent.
14.
Recommended Comments to the Applicant
In ongoing or future clinical studies and through postmarketing surveillance, the sponsor 
should continue to monitor for adverse events of special interest.   These should include 
thrombocytopenia and coagulation abnormalities, renal toxicity, hyponatremia, vasculitis, 
neurologic toxicity, and hepatic effects.   
24
Reference ID: 4028770

===PAGE 26===
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is a representation of an electronic record that was signed
electronically and this page is the manifestation of the electronic
signature.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
/s/
----------------------------------------------------
SALLY U YASUDA
12/15/2016
Reference ID: 4028770

===PAGE 27===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
1 
 
 
CLINICAL REVIEW 
 
Application Type NDA 
Application Number(s) 209531 
Priority or Standard Priority 
Submit Date(s) September 23, 2016 
Received Date(s) September 23, 2016 
PDUFA Goal Date May 23, 2017 
Division/Office Division of Neurology Products / Office of New Drugs 
Reviewer Name(s) Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
Review Completion Date December 14, 2016 
Established Name Nusinersen 
(Proposed) Trade Name Spinraza 
Applicant Biogen  
Formulation(s) Intrathecal 
 
 
                   Dosing Regimen 
Initiate treatment as 4 loading doses on 
approximately days 
 followed by a 
maintenance dose once every 4 months. The 
recommended dosage is 12 mg (5 mL). 
Applicant Proposed 
Indication(s)/Population(s) 
Treatment of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) 
Recommendation on 
Regulatory Action  
If efficacy is demonstrated and the benefits of 
nusinersen outweigh the risks, we recommend 
approval with labeling language including WARNINGS 
and PRECAUTIONS to mitigate the risks.   
Recommended 
Indication(s)/Population(s) 
(if applicable) 
Patients with spinal muscular atrophy (children and 
adults) 
 
Reference ID: 4027874
(b) (4)

===PAGE 28===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
2 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template Version date: November 5, 2015   
Reference ID: 4027874
APPEARS THIS WAY ON ORIGINAL

===PAGE 29===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
3 
 
 
Table of Contents 
 
Glossary ......................................................................................................................................... 10 
1 
Executive Summary ............................................................................................................... 11 
1.1. 
Product Introduction ...................................................................................................... 11 
1.2. 
Conclusions on the Substantial Evidence of Effectiveness ............................................ 11 
1.3. 
Benefit-Risk Assessment ................................................................................................ 11 
2 
Therapeutic Context ............................................................................................................. 17 
2.1. 
Analysis of Condition ...................................................................................................... 17 
2.2. 
Analysis of Current Treatment Options ......................................................................... 17 
3 
Regulatory Background ......................................................................................................... 17 
3.1. 
U.S. Regulatory Actions and Marketing History ............................................................. 17 
3.2. 
Summary of Presubmission/Submission Regulatory Activity ........................................ 17 
3.3. 
Foreign Regulatory Actions and Marketing History ....................................................... 18 
4 
Significant Issues from Other Review Disciplines Pertinent to Clinical Conclusions on 
Efficacy and Safety ........................................................................................................................ 18 
4.1. 
Office of Scientific Investigations (OSI) .......................................................................... 18 
4.2. 
Product Quality .............................................................................................................. 18 
4.3. 
Clinical Microbiology ...................................................................................................... 18 
4.4. 
Nonclinical Pharmacology/Toxicology ........................................................................... 18 
4.5. 
Clinical Pharmacology .................................................................................................... 18 
4.5.1. 
Mechanism of Action .............................................................................................. 19 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 30===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
4 
 
4.5.2. 
Pharmacodynamics ................................................................................................. 19 
4.5.3. 
Pharmacokinetics .................................................................................................... 19 
4.6. 
Devices and Companion Diagnostic Issues .................................................................... 19 
4.7. 
Consumer Study Reviews ............................................................................................... 19 
5 
Sources of Clinical Data and Review Strategy....................................................................... 19 
5.1. 
Table of Clinical Studies .................................................................................................. 19 
5.2. 
Review Strategy .............................................................................................................. 25 
6 
Review of Relevant Individual Trials Used to Support Efficacy ............................................ 26 
7 
Integrated Review of Effectiveness ...................................................................................... 26 
8 
Review of Safety.................................................................................................................... 26 
8.1. 
Safety Review Approach ................................................................................................ 26 
8.2. 
Review of the Safety Database ...................................................................................... 28 
8.2.1. 
Overall Exposure ..................................................................................................... 28 
8.2.2. 
Relevant Characteristics of the Safety Population ................................................. 29 
8.2.3. 
Adequacy of the Safety Database ........................................................................... 31 
8.3. 
Adequacy of Applicant’s Clinical Safety Assessments .................................................... 32 
8.3.1. 
Issues Regarding Data Integrity and Submission Quality ....................................... 32 
8.3.2. 
Categorization of Adverse Events ........................................................................... 32 
8.3.3. 
Routine Clinical Tests .............................................................................................. 32 
8.4. 
Safety Results ................................................................................................................. 33 
8.4.1. 
Deaths ..................................................................................................................... 33 
8.4.2. 
Serious Adverse Events ........................................................................................... 34 
8.4.3. 
Dropouts and/or Discontinuations Due to Adverse Effects ................................... 41 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 31===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
5 
 
8.4.4. 
Significant Adverse Events ...................................................................................... 41 
8.4.5. 
Treatment Emergent Adverse Events and Adverse Reactions ............................... 42 
8.4.6. 
Laboratory Findings ................................................................................................ 43 
8.4.7. 
Vital Signs ................................................................................................................ 53 
8.4.8. 
Electrocardiograms (ECGs) ...................................................................................... 55 
8.4.9. 
QT  ........................................................................................................................... 57 
8.4.10. 
Immunogenicity .................................................................................................. 60 
8.5. 
Analysis of Submission-Specific Safety Issues ................................................................ 61 
8.5.1. Renal Toxicity .............................................................................................................. 61 
8.5.2. Neurologic Toxicity ..................................................................................................... 65 
8.5.3. Safety Issues Related to Lumbar Puncture ................................................................. 71 
8.5.4. Rash and Possible Vasculitis ....................................................................................... 75 
8.6. 
Safety Analyses by Demographic Subgroups ................................................................. 80 
8.7. 
Specific Safety Studies/Clinical Trials ............................................................................. 81 
8.8. 
Additional Safety Explorations ....................................................................................... 81 
8.8.1. 
Human Carcinogenicity or Tumor Development .................................................... 81 
8.8.2. 
Human Reproduction and Pregnancy ..................................................................... 81 
8.8.3. 
Pediatrics and Assessment of Effects on Growth ................................................... 81 
8.8.4. 
Overdose, Drug Abuse Potential, Withdrawal, and Rebound ................................ 85 
8.9. 
Safety in the Postmarket Setting.................................................................................... 86 
8.9.1. 
Safety Concerns Identified Through Postmarket Experience ................................. 86 
8.9.2. 
Expectations on Safety in the Postmarket Setting ................................................. 86 
8.10. 
Additional Safety Issues From Other Disciplines ........................................................ 87 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 32===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
6 
 
8.11. 
Integrated Assessment of Safety ................................................................................ 87 
9 
Advisory Committee Meeting and Other External Consultations ........................................ 88 
10 Labeling Recommendations .................................................................................................. 88 
10.1. 
Prescribing Information .............................................................................................. 88 
10.2. 
Patient Labeling .......................................................................................................... 88 
10.3. 
Nonprescription Labeling ........................................................................................... 88 
11 Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies (REMS) ............................................................... 88 
11.1. 
Safety Issue(s) that Warrant Consideration of a REMS .............................................. 88 
11.2. 
Conditions of Use to Address Safety Issue(s) ............................................................. 89 
11.3. 
Recommendations on REMS ...................................................................................... 89 
12 Postmarketing Requirements and Commitments ................................................................ 90 
13 Appendix ............................................................................................................................... 90 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 33===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
7 
 
 
Table of Tables 
 
Table 1. Clinical Classification of Spinal Muscular Atrophy ....................................................... 17 
Table 2. Clinical Studies Supporting Safety in NDA 209531 ...................................................... 20 
Table 3. Nusinersen Clinical Studies. Safety Subject Pools. ........................................................ 27 
Table 4. Sample Size for Each Safety Subject Pool ..................................................................... 28 
Table 5. Nusinersen Safety Population. Size and Denominators.................................................. 28 
Table 6. Nusinersen Safety Population. Duration of Exposure. ................................................... 29 
Table 7. Subjects Diagnosed with SMA: Exposure to Treatment ................................................ 29 
Table 8. Demographic Characteristics for Nusinersen Clinical Study Subject Pools .................. 30 
Table 9. SMN2 Copy Number. Nusinersen Clinical Safety Subject Pools. ................................. 31 
Table 10. Deaths in nusinersen clinical studies ............................................................................ 33 
Table 11. Summary of Serious Adverse Events by System Organ Class. Controlled Study CS3B 
and in all Nusinersen-Treated Subjects ......................................................................................... 35 
Table 12. Serious Adverse Events. Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders SOC. 
Controlled Study CS3B and All Nusinersen-treated Subjects.  .................................................... 36 
Table 13. Serious Adverse Events. Infections and Infestations SOC. Controlled Study CS3B and 
All Nusinersen-treated Subjects. ................................................................................................... 37 
Table 14. Serious Adverse Events. Cardiac Disorders SOC. Controlled Study CS3B and All 
Nusinersen-treated Subjects. ......................................................................................................... 38 
Table 15. Serious Adverse Events. Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders SOC. Controlled Study 
CS3B and All Nusinersen-treated Subjects. ................................................................................. 39 
Table 16. Serious Adverse Events. Gastrointestinal Disorders SOC. Controlled Study CS3B and 
All Nusinersen-treated Subjects. ................................................................................................... 39 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 34===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
8 
 
Table 17. Study CS3B. Summary of Adverse Events that Occurred in at Least 5% of Nusinersen 
Subjects and Occurred at Least 5% More Frequently or At Least 2 Times as Frequently Than in 
Control Subjects ............................................................................................................................ 42 
Table 18. CS3A Subject 1776-2305. Serum Electrolyte Values and Dates of Nusinersen 
Administration. ............................................................................................................................. 44 
Table 19. CS3A Subject 1776-2306. Serum Electrolyte Values and Dates of Nusinersen 
Administration. ............................................................................................................................. 46 
Table 20. Electrolyte measurement in Study CS3B. .................................................................... 48 
Table 21. Summary of Shifts from Baseline to High for Hepatic Laboratory Measurements in 
Study CS3B ................................................................................................................................... 49 
Table 22. Shifts in Toxicity Grades from Baseline for Hematology Laboratory Measurements in 
Study CS3B ................................................................................................................................... 52 
Table 23. Summary of Shifts from Baseline for Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time (aPTT) 
and International Normalized Ratio (INR) ................................................................................... 53 
Table 24. Study CS3B Vital Sign Outlier Analyses. Changes from Baseline. ............................. 54 
Table 25. Reference Range of Normal Heart Rate in Children .................................................... 54 
Table 26. Study CS3B. Incidence of Outliers in ECGs Based on Fridericia-corrected QT Interval
....................................................................................................................................................... 58 
Table 27. Nusinersen (ISIS 396443) Tissue Concentrations in Human Spinal Cord after 
Treatment ...................................................................................................................................... 62 
Table 28. Nusinersen (ISIS 396443) Tissue Concentrations in Additional Human Tissues after 
Treatment ...................................................................................................................................... 62 
Table 29. Adverse events in the Nervous System Disorders SOC. Summary of Clinical Safety 
Analysis......................................................................................................................................... 66 
Table 30. Most Frequent Adverse Events in the 120 hours Following Nusinersen Dosing ......... 72 
Table 31. Use of Radiologic Guidance, Sedation, and Anesthesia for Lumbar Puncture in 
Nusinersen Clinical Studies .......................................................................................................... 73 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 35===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
9 
 
 
Table of Figures 
 
Figure 1. Relationship between Studies CS1, CS10, CS2, and CS12 .......................................... 25 
Figure 2. Study CS3B Subject 2010-5026. Suspected Vasculitis Right Hand ............................. 76 
Figure 3. Study CS3B Subject 2002-5370. Foot lesion. ............................................................... 77 
Figure 4.  Study CS3B Subject 2002-5370. Forearm Lesion. ...................................................... 78 
Figure 5. Study CS3B Subject 2002-5370. Leg Lesion (Site of Biopsy) ..................................... 78 
Figure 6. Digital Necrosis in a Patient with SMA ........................................................................ 79 
Figure 7. Study CS3B. Height/length over Time. Mean Results. ................................................. 82 
Figure 8. Study CS3B. Height/length for Age Percentile over Time. Mean Results. .................. 83 
Figure 9. Study CS3B. Weight over Time. Mean Results. ........................................................... 84 
Figure 10. Study CS3B. Weight for Age Percentile over Time. Mean Results. ........................... 85 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 36===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
10 
 
Glossary 
2′-MOE ASO 
2-methoxyethyl antisense oligonucleotide 
AE 
adverse event 
ALT 
alanine aminotransferase 
aPTT 
activated partial thromboplastin time 
AST 
aspartate aminotransferase 
ASO 
antisense oligonucleotide 
BiPAP 
bilevel Positive Airway Pressure 
bpm 
beats per minute 
CMAP 
compound Muscle Action Potential (CMAP) Test 
CSR 
clinical study report 
CTCAE 
National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 
ECG 
electrocardiogram 
GGT 
gamma-glutamyl transferase 
hERG 
human ether-a-go-go-related gene 
HINE 
Hammersmith Infant Neurological Examination 
HLT 
High Level Term (MedDRA) 
IND 
investigational new drug application 
INR 
international normalized ratio 
IR 
information request 
ISIS 396443 
nusinersen 
IT 
intrathecal 
IU 
international units 
L 
liter 
LLN 
lower limit of normal 
MedDRA 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
mRNA 
messenger ribonucleic acid 
msec 
milliseconds 
NDA 
new drug application 
PT 
Preferred Term (MedDRA) 
QTcF 
QT interval value corrected according to Fridericia’s formula 
REMS 
risk evaluation and mitigation strategy 
SAE 
serious adverse event 
SCS 
summary of clinical safety 
SMA 
spinal muscular atrophy 
SMN2 gene 
survival of motor neuron 2 gene 
SOC 
System Organ Class (MedDRA) 
ULN 
upper limit of normal 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 37===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
11 
 
1 
Executive Summary 
 
1.1. 
Product Introduction 
 
Nusinersen is a uniformly modified, 2′-O-(2-methoxyethyl) antisense oligonucleotide (2′-MOE 
ASO) designed to bind to a specific sequence in intron 7 of the SMN2 pre-mRNA. The proposed 
proprietary name is Spinraza. The proposed indication is the treatment of spinal muscular 
atrophy (SMA). Nusinersen is a new molecular entity. 
 
1.2. 
Conclusions on the Substantial Evidence of Effectiveness  
 
The reader is referred to the review of clinical efficacy by Dr. Rainer Paine.  
 
 
1.3. 
Benefit-Risk Assessment 
 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 38===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
12 
 
Benefit-Risk Summary and Assessment 
 
Nusinersen is proposed to be used for treatment of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA).   If efficacy is demonstrated and the benefits of nusinersen 
outweigh the risks, then I recommend approval with labeling language including WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS to mitigate the risks.   
 
This document reviews the risk profile of nusinersen. Please refer to Dr. Rainer Paine’s review for discussion of Analysis of Condition and 
Current Treatment Options and Benefit.  
 
Nusinersen is associated with adverse effects that have potentially severe consequences.   
 Six of 56 (11%) nusinersen patients had a platelet level below the lower limit of normal, compared to 0 of 28 sham procedure control 
patients in the controlled study in infantile onset SMA (Study CS3B). No patient had a platelet count less than 50,000 cells per microliter 
in that study. Five of 173 (3%) nusinersen patients had a hemorrhagic complication of lumbar puncture.  Coagulation abnormalities have 
been observed after administration of some antisense oligonucleotides. Low platelet levels or coagulation abnormalities may increase 
the risk of adverse outcomes after intrathecal administration of nusinersen. Monitoring hematologic and coagulation parameters at 
baseline and prior to each maintenance dose may help mitigate this risk. 
 Proteinuria occurred in 17 of 51 (33%) nusinersen subjects with infantile onset SMA, compared to 5/25 (20%) sham control subjects.  
Proteinuria occurred in 26 of 52 (69%) of later-onset SMA subjects with a longer duration of treatment. Treatment-emergent low serum 
bicarbonate occurred in 32 of 48 (67%) of nusinersen subjects in whom it was measured; measurements from a control group were not 
performed.  Low serum bicarbonate levels are characteristic of proximal renal tubular acidosis.   Nusinersen accumulates in the kidney 
and renal toxicity is a class effect of oligonucleotides.  Monitoring for proteinuria and monitoring serum electrolytes including 
bicarbonate at baseline and prior to each maintenance dose may help mitigate a risk of an adverse clinical outcome.  
 Severe hyponatremia occurred in a patient treated with nusinersen.  Monitoring serum electrolytes at baseline and before each 
maintenance dose may help to mitigate this risk.   
 Decreased growth (height and weight) was observed in nusinersen subjects compared to sham control subjects in Study CS3B.   Clinical 
studies did not evaluate whether the effect of nusinersen on growth is reversible with cessation of treatment. 
 Rash and possible vasculitis were reported in 2 patients treated with nusinersen.  A third subject had new onset seizures and cerebral 
infarction after starting nusinersen, with no known risk factor or potential cause for cerebral infarction; the etiology in this case is 
unknown, but vasculitis is a possible cause of cerebral infarction. 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 39===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
13 
 
 
 Nusinersen, like other phosphorothioate oligonucleotides, accumulates in the liver.  In Study CS3B, 2 of 55 (4%) nusinersen 
subjects had an alanine aminotransferase (ALT) level greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal, compared to 0 of 25 control 
subjects.  Monitoring hepatic tests, including gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) and bilirubin at baseline and before each 
maintenance dose may help to mitigate the risk of hepatotoxicity.  
 
If nusinersen is approved, I recommend WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS in labeling regarding the risks of thrombocytopenia, coagulation 
abnormalities, renal toxicity, hyponatremia, decreased growth, rash and possible vasculitis, and hepatotoxicity.  If nusinersen is approved, the 
label should include recommendations for monitoring to mitigate these risks. 
 
 
Dimension 
Evidence and Uncertainties  
Conclusions and Reasons  
Analysis of 
Condition 
 Please refer to Dr. Paine’s review of clinical efficacy. 
 
Current 
Treatment 
Options 
 Please refer to Dr. Paine’s review of clinical efficacy. 
 
Benefit 
 Please refer to Dr. Paine’s review of clinical efficacy. 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 40===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
14 
 
Dimension 
Evidence and Uncertainties  
Conclusions and Reasons  
Risk 
    The safety database for nusinersen includes all patients from the 
Phase 3 controlled study and the Phase 2 open-label study in 
patients with symptomatic infantile-onset SMA, the Phase 2 open-
label study in infants with presymptomatic SMA, and open-label 
studies in subjects with later-onset SMA.  Drug exposure is 
adequate for NDA submission, but longer durations of exposure 
may occur in the postmarketing setting.  The safety database did 
not include patients with Type 4 SMA (age of symptom onset in the 
second or third decade), who are included in the proposed 
treatment indication.  
    In Study CS3B, the Phase 3 controlled study in symptomatic infantile 
onset SMA patients, common AEs (occurring in at least 20% of 
nusinersen patients, and occurring in nusinersen patients at least 
5% more frequently or at least 2 times as frequently than in control 
patients) were:  upper respiratory infection (44%); lower respiratory 
infections (43%); and constipation (30%). In later onset patients, 
common adverse events that were not commonly reported in Study 
CS3B included headache (50%), back pain (41%), and post lumbar 
puncture syndrome (41%). 
 Six of 56 (11%) nusinersen patients had a platelet level below the lower 
limit of normal, compared to 0 of 28 sham procedure control patients. No 
patient had a platelet count less than 50,000 cells per microliter in that 
study. Five of 173 (3%) nusinersen patients had a hemorrhagic 
complication of lumbar puncture.  Coagulation abnormalities have been 
observed after administration of some antisense oligonucleotides.   
 Proteinuria occurred in 17 of 51 (33%) nusinersen subjects with infantile 
Safety issues that occur at the proposed dose 
of nusinersen include thrombocytopenia, 
proteinuria, hyponatremia, decreased growth, 
and rash and possible vasculitis.  Increased 
liver enzymes have also been observed in 
some patients.  Coagulation laboratory  
abnormalities, renal accumulation, and hepatic 
accumulation are class effects of 
phosphorothioate antisense oligonucleotides.   
The safety issues potentially could have life-
threatening outcomes; monitoring could 
mitigate the risk.   The magnitude of the 
potential for serious harm after approval is 
unknown.   
 
Because of limitations due to the small number 
of patients exposed and duration of exposure 
in the clinical trials, it is likely that adverse 
reactions not identified to date, or of a 
magnitude not observed to date, will occur in 
the postmarketing setting. 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 41===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
15 
 
Dimension 
Evidence and Uncertainties  
Conclusions and Reasons  
onset SMA compared to 5/25 (20%) sham control subjects.  Proteinuria 
occurred in 26 of 52 (69%) of later-onset SMA subjects with a longer 
duration of treatment. Nusinersen accumulates in the kidney in humans 
and accumulation in proximal tubule cells has been described in 
nonclinical studies.  The urinary dipstick test used in nusinersen clinical 
studies is relatively insensitive to proteins that are major constituents of 
tubular proteinuria.  Treatment-emergent low serum bicarbonate 
occurred in 32 of 48 (67%) of nusinersen subjects in whom it was 
measured; measurements from a control group were not performed.  Low 
serum bicarbonate levels are characteristic of proximal renal tubular 
acidosis.   Monitoring for proteinuria and monitoring serum electrolytes 
including bicarbonate at baseline and prior to each maintenance dose may 
help mitigate a risk of an adverse clinical outcome. 
    Severe hyponatremia occurred in a patient treated with nusinersen.  
The sodium level normalized after salt supplementation treatment, 
which continued for 14 months.  
 Decreased growth (height and weight) was observed in nusinersen 
subjects compared to sham control subjects in Study CS3B.   Clinical 
studies did not evaluate whether the effect of nusinersen on growth is 
reversible with cessation of treatment. 
 Rash and possible vasculitis were reported in 2 patients treated with 
nusinersen; one patient did not have a biopsy and the other patient had a 
post-operative diagnosis of vasculitis vs vascular occlusion, although the 
biopsy reported stated “there are no features of vasculitis”.   A third 
subject had new onset seizures and cerebral infarction after starting 
nusinersen, with no known risk factor or potential cause for cerebral 
 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 42===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
16 
 
Dimension 
Evidence and Uncertainties  
Conclusions and Reasons  
infarction; the etiology in this case is unknown but vasculitis is a possible 
cause of cerebral infarction. 
    Nusinersen, like other phosphorothioate oligonucleotides, 
accumulates in the liver.  In Study CS3B, 2 of 55 (4%) nusinersen 
subjects had an alanine aminotransferase (ALT) level greater than 3 
times the upper limit of normal, compared to 0 of 25 control 
subjects.  
    Safety in the postmarketing setting: Laboratory values as markers of 
renal, hepatic, and thrombocytopenia adverse events would be 
useful at baseline and prior to each maintenance dose in the 
postmarket setting if the drug is approved.   
 Other uncertainties:  The risk of serious toxicity with longer term exposure 
and with exposure in more patients is unknown.   
Risk 
Management 
 Strong product labeling with recommendations for monitoring of 
laboratory parameters may help to mitigate the risks of renal, hepatic, and 
thrombocytopenia adverse events.  However, even with adequate 
monitoring, some patients may experience serious adverse events.   
WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS should be 
included in labeling to describe the risks of 
renal and hepatic adverse events and 
thrombocytopenia and to provide 
recommendations for monitoring. I also 
recommend informing prescribers about 
hyponatremia, decreased growth, and rash 
and possible vasculitis in WARNINGS and 
PRECAUTIONS.  
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 43===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
17 
 
2 
Therapeutic Context 
 
2.1. 
Analysis of Condition 
 
Spinal muscular atrophy is an autosomal recessive neuromuscular disease characterized by 
degeneration of the spinal cord neurons, which results in progressive muscular atrophy and 
weakness. The clinical spectrum of spinal muscular atrophy ranges from early infant death to 
adult life with weakness that can be classified as mild (see table below).  
 
Table 1. Clinical Classification of Spinal Muscular Atrophy 
 
SMA = Spinal Muscular Atrophy 
Source: Wang CH, et al. Consensus Statement for Standard of Care in Spinal Muscular Atrophy. J Child Neurol 2007 22: 1027 
 
2.2. 
Analysis of Current Treatment Options 
 
There are no FDA approved treatments for SMA.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
Regulatory Background 
3.1. 
U.S. Regulatory Actions and Marketing History 
 
Nusinersen is a new molecular entity. It is not currently marketed in the United States.  
3.2. 
Summary of Presubmission/Submission Regulatory Activity 
 
Summary of designations:  
 4/18/2011: Orphan drug designation 
 11/29/2011: Fast track designation 
 
Ownership changed from Ionis to Biogen on 8/1/2016.  
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4027874
COPYRIGHT MATERIAL WITHHELD

===PAGE 44===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
18 
 
3.3. 
Foreign Regulatory Actions and Marketing History 
 
There is no foreign marketing experience. 
 
 
4 
Significant Issues from Other Review Disciplines Pertinent to 
Clinical Conclusions on Efficacy and Safety 
 
4.1. 
Office of Scientific Investigations (OSI) 
 
The reader is referred to the OSI review.  
4.2. 
Product Quality  
 
The reader is referred to the Office of Product Quality review.  
4.3. 
Clinical Microbiology 
 
Not applicable.  
4.4. 
Nonclinical Pharmacology/Toxicology 
 
Evidence of neurotoxicity was reported in nonclinical studies of nusinersen in juvenile 
cynomolgus monkeys (see Section 8.5.2 Neurologic Toxicity).  For additional detail, the reader is 
referred to pharmacology/toxicology review.  
4.5. 
Clinical Pharmacology 
 
Please refer to the Clinical Pharmacology review for additional details.  The following 
information is primarily from the Clinical Overview and Summary of Clinical Pharmacology 
Studies in the NDA submission and reflects the findings most relevant to safety.   
 
 Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics were evaluated in infants and children with 
SMA aged 8 days to 15 years at screening. 
 Dose was based on CSF volume. 
 Elimination half-life in human CSF is approximately 135-177 days; steady state 
concentrations were reached within 24 months. 
Reference ID: 4027874
(b) (4)

===PAGE 45===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
19 
 
 Nusinersen appears in the peripheral circulation with maximum concentration in the 
peripheral circulation occurring approximately 2 to 6 hours after intrathecal 
administration; the Sponsor states that the plasma half-life is up to 86.5 days. 
 
4.5.1. Mechanism of Action 
 
SPINRAZA (nusinersen) is a modified antisense oligonucleotide, where the 2’-hydroxy groups of 
the ribofuranosyl rings are replaced with 2’-O-2-methoxyethyl groups and the sugar-phosphate 
backbone is replaced with a sugar-phosphorothioate backbone.  Nusinersen binds to a specific 
sequence in the intron downstream of exon 7 of the SMN2 transcript. 
4.5.2. Pharmacodynamics 
 
Please refer to the summary in Section 4.5 and to the Clinical Pharmacology review 
4.5.3. Pharmacokinetics 
 
Please refer to the summary in Section 4.5 and to the Clinical Pharmacology review 
 
4.6. 
Devices and Companion Diagnostic Issues 
 
Not applicable. 
4.7. 
Consumer Study Reviews 
 
Not applicable. 
5 
Sources of Clinical Data and Review Strategy 
5.1. 
Table of Clinical Studies 
 
The table below summarizes clinical studies supporting safety in NDA 209531. The figure below 
summarizes the relationship between Studies CS1, CS10, CS2, and CS12.  
 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 46===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
20 
 
Table 2. Clinical Studies Supporting Safety in NDA 209531 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 47===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
21 
 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 48===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
22 
 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 49===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
23 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 50===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
24 
 
  
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 51===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
25 
 
Figure 1. Relationship between Studies CS1, CS10, CS2, and CS12 
 
5.2. 
Review Strategy 
 
The clinical review of NDA 209531 is divided into a review of clinical efficacy (by Dr. Rainer 
Paine) and this review of clinical safety.  
 
Information submitted as part of NDA 209531, published information related to 
oligonucleotides as a pharmacologic class, and other relevant published literature are discussed 
in this review.  
 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 52===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
26 
 
6 
Review of Relevant Individual Trials Used to Support Efficacy 
 
Not applicable to the review of clinical safety. The reader is referred to the review of clinical 
efficacy by Dr. Rainer Paine.  
7 
Integrated Review of Effectiveness 
 
Not applicable to the review of clinical safety. The reader is referred to the review of clinical 
efficacy by Dr. Rainer Paine. 
8 
Review of Safety 
8.1. 
Safety Review Approach 
 
The safety subject pools used in analyses of nusinersen clinical safety are summarized in the 
tables below.  
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 53===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
27 
 
Table 3. Nusinersen Clinical Studies. Safety Subject Pools.  
 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety Table 2 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 54===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
28 
 
 
Table 4. Sample Size for Each Safety Subject Pool 
 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety Table 3 
8.2. 
Review of the Safety Database  
 
8.2.1. Overall Exposure 
 
The tables below describe the size and subject duration of exposure for the nusinersen safety 
population.  
 
Table 5. Nusinersen Safety Population. Size and Denominators.  
 
Nusinersen Safety Database for Treatment of Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA)  
  
Clinical Trial Groups 
Nusinersen (n=173 ) 
Active Control 
(n=0) 
Sham Procedure 
Control (n= 41) 
Normal Volunteers 
0 
0 
0 
Controlled trials 
conducted for this 
indication2 
80 
0 
41 
All other than 
controlled trials 
conducted for this 
indication3 
93 
0 
0 
Controlled trials 
conducted for other 
indications4 
0 
0 
0 
Source: Sponsor Table 3. Summary of Clinical Safety.  
 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 55===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
29 
 
Table 6. Nusinersen Safety Population. Duration of Exposure.  
 
Number of patients exposed to nusinersen: 
 
Total 
 >=6 months 
 >=12 months 
>=18 months 
 >=24 months  
Controlled study subjectsa  
80 
41 
19 
0 
0 
All subjects 
173 
120 
83 
62 
54 
a Study CS3B subjects 
Source: Submission to NDA 209531 on 10/25/2016 
 
Subject exposure to treatment by subject pool is summarized in the table below. Most of the 
experience with nusinersen exposure longer than 2 years occurred in the Later-onset SMA 
subject pool (Pool E). However, Pool E subjects did not receive the full dose of nusinersen under 
consideration for marketing (12 mg) for the entire treatment duration. Pool E subjects received 
varying nusinersen doses ranging from 1-12 mg (see Figure 1).  
 
Table 7. Subjects Diagnosed with SMA: Exposure to Treatment 
 
Summary of Clinical Safety Source Table 1 
8.2.2. Relevant Characteristics of the Safety Population  
 
Demographics and Subject Characteristics 
The table below displays demographics for nusinersen clinical safety subject pools.  
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 56===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
30 
 
Table 8. Demographic Characteristics for Nusinersen Clinical Study Subject Pools 
 
 
 
Age at first dose was calculated in 'years' for Later Onset study and 'days' were used for all other columns. 
Summary of Clinical Safety Source Table 7.  
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 57===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
31 
 
 
Mean ages at first dose were 22 days, 161 days (5 months), and 7 years for Presymptomatic 
Infantile-onset SMA Subjects (Pool A), Presymptomatic Infantile-Onset SMA Subjects (Pool C), 
and Later-onset Subjects (Pool E), respectively.  
 
In Study CS3B (Pool B), characteristics of nusinersen and sham procedure control subjects were 
similar, including age at first treatment, gestational age, sex, ethnicity, race, geographic region, 
height, weight, and SMN2 copy number.1  
 
The table below summarizes SMN2 copy number for nusinersen clinical safety subject pools.  
 
Table 9. SMN2 Copy Number. Nusinersen Clinical Safety Subject Pools. 
 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety Source Table 8 
 
8.2.3. Adequacy of the Safety Database  
 
Because spinal muscular atrophy is a rare disease, the overall subject exposure and 
demographics are acceptable for NDA submission.  
 
All subjects with infantile-onset SMA (117 of all 173 nusinersen-treated subjects) were less than 
1 year old at first dose, including all of the controlled study CS3B subjects. Thus, adverse events 
which require self-reporting from the subject could not be assessed in the controlled data.  
 
The Later-onset SMA Subject Pool (age range 2-16) had the longest mean duration of exposure 
(34 months).2 Most of the subjects with greater than 2 years of nusinersen exposure were in 
this subject pool. However, Pool E subjects did not receive the full dose of nusinersen under 
                                                     
1 Summary of Clinical Safety Source Tables 5 and 6.  
2 Summary of Clinical Safety Source Table 1.  
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 58===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
32 
 
consideration for marketing (12 mg) for the entire treatment duration. Pool E subjects received 
varying nusinersen doses ranging from 1-12 mg (see Figure 1). 
 
8.3. 
Adequacy of Applicant’s Clinical Safety Assessments  
8.3.1. Issues Regarding Data Integrity and Submission Quality  
 
The NDA submission was well-organized. Requests for additional information were addressed 
promptly by the Sponsor.  
8.3.2. Categorization of Adverse Events 
 
The Sponsor’s process for recording adverse events (AEs) was appropriate. The Sponsor’s 
coding resulted in appropriate translation of verbatim terms to Preferred Terms. 
 
The Sponsor categorized AEs as mild, moderate, or severe. Adverse events were coded to 
MedDRA 18.1 in the summary of clinical safety.3 
 
An AE was regarded as treatment-emergent if it was present prior to receiving the first dose of 
nusinersen or first sham procedure and subsequently worsened in severity, or it was not 
present prior to receiving the first dose of nusinersen or first sham procedure but subsequently 
appeared. 
8.3.3. Routine Clinical Tests 
 
The laboratory assessment schedule in the nusinersen clinical development program is 
summarized in Appendix 1; deficiencies in these laboratory assessments include: 
 
 No quantitative urine protein measurements were performed. (See Section 8.5.1 Renal 
Toxicity) 
 Serum bicarbonate is listed as a routine laboratory assessment in Study CS3B,4 but 
serum bicarbonate was not routinely evaluated in this study.5 (See Section 8.5.1 Renal 
Toxicity) 
 Coagulation laboratory parameters were measured post-baseline only in Study CS2. (See 
Section 8.4.6. Laboratory Findings) 
 Gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) was not measured to assess hepatic toxicity. (See 
Section 8.4.6. Laboratory Findings) 
                                                     
3 P. 20 IR response submitted to NDA 209531 on 11/8/2016.  
4 P. 5 Multiple module information amendment submitted to NDA 209531 on 9/23/2016.  
5 P. 3 IR response submitted to NDA 209531 on 11/29/2016. 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 59===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
33 
 
8.4. 
Safety Results 
 
8.4.1. Deaths 
 
Deaths in nusinersen clinical studies are listed in the table below. In Controlled Study CS3B, 
deaths occurred in 12 of 80 (15%) nusinersen-treated subjects, compared to 13 of 41 (32%) 
sham procedure control subjects. In all studies (Pool F), 16 of 173 (9%) nusinersen-treated 
subjects died.  
 
Table 10. Deaths in nusinersen clinical studies 
System Organ Class 
     Preferred Term 
Study CS3B: 
Nusinersen 
(N=80) 
Study CS3B: 
Control (N=41) 
All Nusinersen 
subjects 
(N=173) 
Total 
12 (15) 
13 (32) 
16 (9) 
 
 
 
 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
7 (9) 
10 (24) 
10 (6) 
     Respiratory failure 
4 (5) 
7 (17) 
6 (3) 
     Acute respiratory failure 
1 (1) 
1 (2) 
1 (<1) 
     Asphyxia 
0 
0 
1 (<1) 
     Respiratory arrest 
1 (1) 
0 
1 (<1) 
     Respiratory distress 
1 (1) 
2 (5) 
1 (<1) 
 
 
 
 
Cardiac disorders 
2 (3) 
2 (5) 
2 (1) 
     Cardio-respiratory arrest 
2 (3) 
2 (5) 
2 (1) 
 
 
 
 
Nervous system disorders 
2 (3) 
0 
2 (1) 
     Brain injury 
1 (1) 
0 
1 (<1) 
     Hypoxic-ischaemic encephalopathy 
1 (1) 
0 
1 (<1) 
 
 
 
 
General disorders and administration site 
conditions 
1 (1) 
1 (2) 
1 (<1) 
     Death 
1 (1) 
1 (2) 
1 (<1) 
 
 
 
 
Infections and infestations 
0 
0 
1 (<1) 
     Lower respiratory tract infection viral 
0 
0 
1 (<1) 
Source: Sponsor Tables 42 and 44 in Section 5.3.5.3. Source Tables for Summary of Clinical Safety. Submitted to 
NDA 20951 on 9/23/2016.   
 
All of the deaths occurred in subjects with symptomatic infantile-onset SMA, and the deaths 
were related to complications of SMA [except for Study CS3B Subject 2037-5167 (SAE PT Death) 
who has an unclear cause of death]. Most deaths were attributed to respiratory disorders or 
cardio-respiratory arrest. In controlled study CS3B, 2 deaths in nusinersen-treated subjects 
coded to the Nervous system disorders SOC were related to complications of SMA: 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 60===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
34 
 
 SAE PT Brain injury: Subject 1780-5032 had advanced respiratory disease related to 
SMA. Hypoxic brain injury and death occurred after this subject developed pneumonia 
and uncompensated shock.  
 SAE PT Hypoxic-ischaemic encephalopathy: Subject 2000-5145 had a cardiac arrest 
after aspirating post-nasogastric tube feeding. Aspiration is a common complication of 
SMA.6 
 
In controlled study CS3B, 2 deaths were coded to the PT “Death”:  
 
 SAE PT Death: Subject 2037-5167 (nusinersen group) was found dead at home at age 
7.5 months (81 and 52 days after the subject’s first and latest nusinersen dose, 
respectively). While her immediate cause of death was unclear, complications of SMA 
likely contributed to her death.  She had been hospitalized twice within 2 months of 
death for “weight stagnation” and 2 weeks prior to her death weighed 6 kg (2nd 
percentile in weight for her age and sex).7 Growth failure is a universal problem in 
nonsitting SMA patients.8  
 SAE PT Death: Subject 1835-5103 (sham control procedure group) died after initiating 
palliative comfort care that included morphine.  
 
There were no deaths in infants with presymptomatic SMA or subjects with later onset SMA.  
8.4.2. Serious Adverse Events 
 
Reviewer comment: In the review of individual serious adverse events, this reviewer evaluated 
information from the Sponsor’s narrative summaries. In specific cases, this reviewer also 
evaluated information from case report forms or related medical records.  
 
In the controlled study CS3B, 56 of 80 (70%) of nusinersen-treated subjects had a serious 
adverse event (SAE), compared to 33 of 41 (80%) of sham procedure control subjects. Most of 
the serious adverse events were manifestations of spinal muscular atrophy.  
 
Similar to controlled study CS3B, most of the SAEs in Pool F (all nusinersen-treated subjects) 
were manifestations of spinal muscular atrophy. In all treated subjects, the incidence of SAEs is 
lower [84 of 173 (49%)] compared to controlled study subjects, likely because this pool includes 
subjects with presymptomatic or later onset SMA, who generally have less severe 
                                                     
6 Birnkrant, David J., et al. "Treatment of type I spinal muscular atrophy with noninvasive ventilation and 
gastrostomy feeding." Pediatric neurology 18.5 (1998): 407-410. 
7 World Health Organization (WHO) Growth Standards. Accessed on 10/22/2016 at: 
http://www.cdc.gov/growthcharts/who_charts.htm 
8 Wang, Ching H., et al. "Consensus statement for standard of care in spinal muscular atrophy." Journal of Child 
Neurology 22.8 (2007): 1027-1049. 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 61===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
35 
 
manifestations of SMA compared to  Study CS3B subjects with symptomatic infantile onset 
SMA. Serious Adverse Events by System Organ Class (SOC) are summarized in the table below.  
 
Table 11. Summary of Serious Adverse Events by System Organ Class. Controlled Study CS3B and in all 
Nusinersen-Treated Subjects 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: 11/01/2016 Submission to NDA 209531 
 
Reviewer comment: There were no adverse events of aplastic anemia, pancytopenia, acute 
pancreatitis, Stevens Johnson Syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, or drug reaction with 
eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome reported in the nusinersen clinical 
development program.  
 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders SOC 
 
In controlled study CS3B, 46 of 80 (58%) nusinersen-treated subjects had an SAE in the 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders SOC, compared to 26 of 41 (63%) of sham 
procedure control subjects. For individual Preferred Terms in this SOC, incidences were 
generally similar between treatment groups or higher in the sham procedure control group (see 
table below).   
 
One exception was SAEs coded to the Preferred Term Atelectasis, which occurred in 11 of 80 
(14%) of nusinersen-treated subjects, compared to 2 of 41 (5%) sham procedure control 
subjects.  
 
Reviewer comment: Nusinersen subjects had increased frequencies of upper and lower 
respiratory infections (see Section 8.4.5. Treatment Emergent Adverse Events and Adverse 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 62===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
36 
 
Reactions). Obstructive atelectasis related to infection and mucus plugging may have 
contributed to the increased frequency of serious atelectasis in nusinersen subjects. One 
nusinersen subject9 received nitrous oxide prior to developing serious atelectasis.  The use of 
sedation with nitrous oxide during lumbar puncture procedures may have contributed to serious 
atelectasis in this patient. Development of atelectasis with use of nitrous oxide has been 
described in the published literature.10-11  
 
In Study CS3B, SAEs coded to the PT Aspiration were more common in nusinersen subjects [3 of 
80 (4%) compared to 0 of 41 control subjects], but aspiration adverse events were less common 
in nusinersen subjects compared to sham procedure control subjects.12 
 
Table 12. Serious Adverse Events. Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders SOC. 
Controlled Study CS3B and All Nusinersen-treated Subjects. 13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
9 CS3B Subject 2037-5139. P. 10 Response to FDA IR submitted to NDA 209531 on 11/23/2016.  
10 Gunnarsson L, et al. Atelectasis and gas exchange impairment during enflurane/nitrous oxide anaesthesia. Acta 
Anaesthesiol Scand. 1989 Nov;33(8):629-37. 
11 Hedenstierna G, Edmark L. Mechanisms of atelectasis in the perioperative period. Best Pract Res Clin 
Anaesthesiol. 2010 Jun;24(2):157-69. 
12 In Study CS3B, adverse events coded to the Preferred Terms “Aspiration” or “Pneumonia aspiration” occurred in 
9 of 80 (11%) nusinersen subjects, compared to 7 of 41 (17%) sham procedure control subjects.  
13 Source for each table in this review of serious adverse events was submitted to NDA 209531 on 11/1/2016. 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 63===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
37 
 
Infections and Infestations SOC 
 
In controlled study CS3B, 40 of 80 (50%) nusinersen-treated subjects had an SAE in the 
Infections and Infestations SOC, compared to 15 of 41 (37%) of sham procedure control 
subjects (see table below). Pneumonia and other lower respiratory infection SAEs14 were more 
common in nusinersen subjects [29 of 80 (36%)], compared to sham procedure control subjects 
[9 of 41 (22%)].  
 
Table 13. Serious Adverse Events. Infections and Infestations SOC. Controlled Study CS3B 
and All Nusinersen-treated Subjects. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
14 Pneumonia and other lower respiratory infection SAEs in Study CS3B included adverse events coded to the 
following Preferred Terms: Pneumonia, Pneumonia viral, Respiratory syncytial virus bronchiolitis,  Bronchiolitis, 
Lower respiratory tract infection, Pneumonia bacterial, Bronchitis, Bronchitis viral, Pneumonia moraxella, 
Pneumonia parainfluenzae viral, Lower respiratory tract infection viral, Lung infection, Pneumonia influenzal, 
Pneumonia pseudomonal, Pneumonia respiratory syncytial viral. 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 64===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
38 
 
Cardiac Disorders SOC 
 
In controlled study CS3B, the incidence of SAEs in the Cardiac disorders SOC was similar between 
nusinersen subjects [9 of 80 (11%)], compared to sham procedure control subjects [5 of 41 
(12%)] (see table below).  
 
Reviewer comment: All of the cardiac disorder SAEs occurred in patients with symptomatic 
infantile-onset SMA. I have reviewed these events and assess them to be likely related to cardio-
respiratory compromise in patients with advanced symptomatic SMA.  
 
Table 14. Serious Adverse Events. Cardiac Disorders SOC. Controlled Study CS3B and All 
Nusinersen-treated Subjects. 
 
 
 
 
Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders SOC 
 
In controlled study CS3B, the incidence of SAEs in the Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders SOC 
was similar between nusinersen subjects [7 of 80 (9%)], compared to sham procedure control 
subjects [4 of 41 (10%)] (see table below). The most frequent SAEs in this SOC (i.e., PTs Weight 
gain poor, Failure to thrive, Feeding disorder of infancy or early childhood, and Feeding 
intolerance) are common issues in SMA patients.15 Nusinersen-treated Study CS3B Subject 
1997-5277 had an SAE of dehydration as part of her feeding disorder.  
 
                                                     
15 Tilton AH, et al. Nutrition and swallowing in pediatric neuromuscular patients. Semin Pediatr Neurol. 1998 
Jun;5(2):106-15. 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 65===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
39 
 
Table 15. Serious Adverse Events. Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders SOC. Controlled 
Study CS3B and All Nusinersen-treated Subjects. 
 
 
 
The SAE of Hyponatraemia is discussed in Section 8.4.6.1.1.  
 
 
 
Gastrointestinal Disorders SOC 
 
In controlled study CS3B, 6 of 80 nusinersen (8%) subjects compared to 3 of 41 (7%) sham 
control subjects had SAEs coded to the Gastrointestinal Disorders SOC (see table below).  PTs in 
this SOC are common SMA-related issues, and they occur in similar frequencies between 
treatment groups.  
 
Table 16. Serious Adverse Events. Gastrointestinal Disorders SOC. Controlled Study CS3B 
and All Nusinersen-treated Subjects. 
 
 
 
Nervous System disorders SOC 
 
SAEs coded to the Nervous system disorders SOC are discussed in Section 8.5.2. Neurologic 
Toxicity. 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 66===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
40 
 
Immune system disorders SOC 
 
One SAE coded to this SOC (SAE PT Drug hypersensitivity; Study CS2 Subject 1780-1202 treated 
with nusinersen 3 mg) occurred in a 9 year old subject. He received IV fentanyl as part of a 
procedure to remove a plantar wart and then received his third dose of nusinersen.16  In the 
post-anesthesia care unit, he had upper lip swelling, hives, and redness. Subsequent to this 
event, the subject responded to treatment with supplemental oxygen, epinephrine 
1:1000, Decadron (dexamethasone), Versed (midazolam), Benadryl (diphenhydramine), and 
ranitidine, and the event resolved on the same day. An immunology consultation assessed the 
event as possibly  a side effect of fentanyl rather than a true IgE-mediated reaction due to the 
lack of elevated histamine, tryptase, or absolute eosinophil count approximately 1 hour after 
the start of the reaction. Subsequent to this event, the subject received 1 additional 3 mg dose 
of nusinersen in Study CS2 and 4 additional 12 mg doses of nusinersen in Study CS12. No 
adverse event indicative of hypersensitivity was reported after this SAE.  
 
Reviewer comment: This case of drug hypersensitivity occurred after administration of fentanyl 
and nusinersen. Because this subject had 5 subsequent doses of nusinersen with no event of 
drug hypersensitivity, a relationship to nusinersen is unlikely.  
 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders SOC 
 
One SAE coded to this SOC (SAE PT Synovitis; CS3A Subject 1833-2303 treated with nusinersen 
12 mg) occurred in a 31 month old male, who developed vomiting, diarrhea, and fever on Study 
Day 756. He received his 8th nusinersen dose on Study Day 757. On Day 
 he developed fever, 
right knee pain, and back pain. X-rays of the right knee and both hips were reported as 
negative. There was no joint swelling or erythema, but the subject was not able to stand or 
bear weight. There was no tenderness or stiffness in the neck and back on physical exam, and 
no bruising at the lumbar puncture site and no tenderness along the spine. No pain or 
discomfort was elicited with range of motion at the hips and knees although the left hip. 
 
The subject was treated with an IV bolus of sodium chloride and ibuprofen. Later that day he 
had no further episodes of pain, and was able to change from a supine to sitting position and 
sitting to supine without assistance; he was also able to stand and bear weight without 
difficulty. The next day, on Study Day 
, the subject was discharged home.  
 
Reviewer comment: The etiology of this SAE is unclear. He had symptoms of infection (vomiting, 
diarrhea, and fever) 2 days prior to the onset of his synovitis symptoms. However, the SAE 
occurred 1 day after nusinersen administration. Both a viral etiology and a drug-related etiology 
                                                     
16 P. 755 CS2 Study Report submitted to NDA 209531 on 9/23/2016.  
Reference ID: 4027874
(b) (6)
(b) (6)

===PAGE 67===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
41 
 
are possible causes for this case of synovitis. This subject did not test positive for anti-dug 
antibodies. 
 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders SOC 
 
One SAE coded to this SOC (SAE PT Dermatitis; CS3B Subject 1999-5251 treated with nusinersen 
12 mg) was reported. This subject had skin inflammation near the right eye, which was 
intermittent and had occurred prior to the first nusinersen dose.  
 
Reviewer comment: Because this subject had similar symptoms prior to starting nusinersen, a 
causal role of nusinersen is unlikely.  
 
Vascular disorders SOC  
 
Study CS3B Subject 1780-5032 had an SAE coded to the PT Shock as a result of advanced 
respiratory disease related to SMA. Hypoxic brain injury and death occurred after this subject 
developed pneumonia and uncompensated shock. 
 
Reviewer comment: The SAE of Shock was a complication of advanced symptomatic SMA. 
 
Reviewer comment: For ongoing studies CS4, 232SM202, and CS11, I reviewed the submitted 
progress reports with blinded aggregate data. According to the available information, the SAEs 
reported in these studies were similar to those reported in the NDA submission. 
 
8.4.3. Dropouts and/or Discontinuations Due to Adverse Effects 
 
In subjects with infantile-onset SMA in Study CS3B and Study CS3A, all events leading to 
treatment discontinuation were a result of death that occurred before the next scheduled 
dose.17 There were no events that lead to treatment discontinuation in subjects with 
Presymptomatic SMA or later-onset SMA. 
 
8.4.4. Significant Adverse Events 
 
The Sponsor categorized clinical study adverse events by severity (mild, moderate, or severe) in 
the summary of clinical safety datasets. Most adverse events categorized as severe were also 
categorized as Serious Adverse Events and are discussed in Section 8.4.2. Most of the remaining 
                                                     
17 P. 51 Summary of Clinical Safety 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 68===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
42 
 
severe adverse events were manifestations of SMA, including adverse events of respiratory 
infection, respiratory compromise/failure, gastritis, dysphagia, and joint contracture.  
Other severe adverse events in nusinersen-treated subjects that were not SAEs or 
manifestations of SMA and are not discussed elsewhere in this review include: 
 
 Study CS2 Subject 1775-2208 (3 year old female from the United States) had an AE of 
Myalgia lasting 2 hours on Study Day 2.  
 Study CS3B Subject 2000-5203 (15 month old male from the United States) had an AE of 
Hypertension starting on Study Day 330 and lasting for 54 days.  
 
Reviewer comment: The causes for these adverse events are unclear. Limited information was 
provided. 
8.4.5. Treatment Emergent Adverse Events and Adverse Reactions 
 
Adverse events that occurred in at least 5% of nusinersen subjects and occurred more 
frequently than sham procedure control subjects in Study CS3B are summarized in the table 
below.  
 
Table 17. Study CS3B. Summary of Adverse Events that Occurred in at Least 5% of 
Nusinersen Subjects and Occurred at Least 5% More Frequently or At Least 2 Times as 
Frequently Than in Control Subjects  
Adverse Event Preferred Term 
Nusinersen 12 mg 
N=80 
n (%) 
Sham Procedure Control 
N=41 
n (%) 
 
 
 
Upper respiratory infection  
35 (44) 
16 (39) 
Lower respiratory infection 
34 (43) 
12 (29) 
Constipation 
24 (30) 
9 (22) 
Teething 
11 (14) 
3 (7) 
Upper respiratory tract congestion 
5 (6) 
1 (2) 
Aspiration  
4 (5) 
1 (2) 
Ear infection  
4 (5) 
1 (2) 
Scoliosis  
4 (5) 
1 (2) 
Sources: 10/17/2016 submission to NDA 209531 and Summary of Clinical Safety dataset ADAE (submitted 9/23/2016) 
 
Reviewer comments: Analyses were performed to combine the frequencies of split terms related 
to upper respiratory infection. Preferred terms18 included in the Upper respiratory infection High 
Level Term were combined in the table above. Analyses were performed to combine the 
                                                     
18 Subjects had at least one of these Preferred Terms categorized under the Upper respiratory infection High Level 
Term:  Upper respiratory tract infection, Nasopharyngitis, Rhinitis, Pharyngitis, or Tracheitis.  
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 69===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
43 
 
frequencies of split terms related to lower respiratory infection;19 the results of these analyses 
are also included in the table above.  
 
Study CS3B subjects were less than 1 year old at first dose and were unable to verbally report 
adverse events. Later onset SMA subjects (Pool E; age range at study entry 2-16) were able to 
verbally report adverse events. In later-onset SMA patients, common adverse events that were 
not SMA complications and were not commonly reported in Study CS3B subjects included 
Headache (50%), Back pain (41%), and Post lumbar puncture syndrome (41%). 
 
8.4.6. Laboratory Findings 
 
 
Reviewer note: The denominators in the laboratory findings section of this review correspond to 
the number of subjects with at least one post-treatment measurement of the parameter being 
discussed.  
 
8.4.6.1. Clinical Chemistry Laboratory Measurements 
 
8.4.6.1.1. Hyponatremia 
 
In Study CS3B, 1 of 59 (2%) nusinersen subjects had treatment-emergent low serum sodium, 
compared to 0 of 28 sham procedure control subjects. Of all treated nusinersen subjects, 6 of 
151 (4%) had at least 1 treatment-emergent low serum sodium measurement. Three subjects 
had a treatment-emergent serum sodium less than 130 mmol/L: 
 
CS3A Subject 1776-2305 SAE PT Hyponatraemia:20 Female subject from the United States (4 
months old at study entry) with Type 2 SMA21 and adverse events consistent with advanced 
SMA, including AEs coded to PTs: Use of accessory respiratory muscles, Hypoxia, Apnoea, and 
Cyanosis. She had treatment-emergent hyponatremia first measured on Study Day 89 (124 
mmol/L). Lethargy was noted on Study Day 227, and she had a nadir serum sodium 
measurement of 94 mmol/L on Study Day 231.  
 
                                                     
19 Pneumonia and other lower respiratory infection AEs in Study CS3B included adverse events coded to the 
following Preferred Terms: Pneumonia, Bronchiolitis, Pneumonia viral, Respiratory syncytial virus bronchiolitis,  
Lower respiratory tract infection, Pneumonia bacterial, Bronchitis, Bronchitis viral, Pneumonia moraxella, 
Pneumonia parainfluenzae viral, Lower respiratory tract infection viral, Lung infection, Pneumonia influenzal, 
Pneumonia pseudomonal, Pneumonia respiratory syncytial viral. 
20 Narrative on p. 17 of the information request response submitted to NDA 209531 on 10/14/2016.  
21 Dataset ADSL Section 5.3.5.3. of the NDA 9/23/2016 submission to NDA 209531.  
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 70===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
44 
 
Table 18. CS3A Subject 1776-2305. Serum Electrolyte Values and Dates of Nusinersen Administration.  
Date 
(Study Day) 
Bicarbonate 
(Ref. 
range 
22-30 
mmol/L) 
Calcium 
(Ref. 
range 
8.7-10.2 
mg/dL) 
Chloride 
(Ref. 
range 102- 
109 
mmol/L) 
Glucose (Ref. 
range 60-100 
mg/dL) 
Phosphorus 
(Ref. range 
2.5 to 4.3 
mg/dL) 
Potassium 
(Ref. range 
3.6-5.0 
mmol/L) 
Sodium 
(Ref. range 
136-146 
mmol/L) 
November 11, 2013 
(Screening) 
22 
10.6 H 
104 
82 
6.4 H 
4.7 
139 
Nusinersen Dose 1: November 25, 2013 (Study Day 8) 
Nusinersen Dose 2: December 9, 2013 (Study Day 22) 
December 16, 2013 
(Study Day 29) 
21 L 
10.6 H 
106 
94 
5.4 H 
4.9 
139 
February 14, 2014 
(Study Day 89) 
22 
12.6 H 
85 L 
73 
6.5 H 
4.0 
124 L 
Nusinersen Dose 3: 10.3 mg on February 24, 2014 (Study Day 99) 
May 20, 2014 
(Study Day 184) 
17 L 
11.2 H 
92 L 
67 
5.4 H 
4.6 
128 L 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
94 L 
103 L 
 August 8, 2014 
(Study Day 264) 
19 L 
10.7 H 
102 
91 
5.1 H 
4.8 
135 L 
Nusinersen Dose 4: August 11, 2014 (Study Day 267) 
Nusinersen Dose 5: December 11, 2014 (Study Day 389) 
March 4, 2015 
(Study Day 472) 
20 L 
9.8 
109 
67 
5.7 H 
4.4 
141 
Nusinersen Dose 6: August 19, 2015 (Study Day 640) 
September 23 2015 
(Study Day 675) 
20 L 
9.8 
107  
69 
5.1 H 
4.2 
140 
October 21, 2015 
(Study Day 703) 
20 L 
10 
111 
86 
5.6 H 
4.2 
143 
 
On Study Day
 she was treated with intravenous sodium chloride. (Information on the 
concentration of sodium chloride solution administered was not provided). She was treated 
with oral sodium chloride 3 mL 3 times a day and oral sodium citrate/citric acid (Bicitra) 1 mL 
twice a day (BID) from Study Day 
 to Study Day 320. On Study Day 
 her sodium level 
improved to 103 mmol/L.  
 
Reviewer comment: The subject’s nadir sodium level of 94 mmol/L is profoundly low; it is 
unclear whether a laboratory error has affected this measurement. The repeat sodium 
Reference ID: 4027874
(b) (6)
(b) (6)
(b) (6)
(b) (6)
(b) (6)

===PAGE 71===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
45 
 
measurement of 103 mmol/L, measured a day after treatment for hyponatremia, also reflects a 
severe degree of hyponatremia.  
 
The subject was discharged from the hospital on Study Day 
 with a sodium level of 127 
mmol/L. The subject continued to receive oral sodium citrate/citric acid 1 mL BID through Study 
Day 422. The subject also received oral glucose/sodium citrate/potassium chloride/sodium 
chloride (Osmosal) 6 mL every 4 hours for rehydration from Study Day 298 to Study Day 320. 
The subject received oral glucose/electrolyte solution (Rehydron) 60 mL once daily (QD) from 
Study Day 399 to Study Day 677; the dose was subsequently increased to 120 mL QD on Study 
Day 678. On Study Day 472, the subject received 500 mL intravenous dextrose/sodium chloride 
for fluid replenishment prophylaxis.  
 
Reviewer comment: The Investigator considered increased losses from frequent oral suctioning, 
excess sweating, and a complete reliance on maternal breast milk, which was low in sodium, to 
be the causes of this subject’s hyponatremia. In the opinion of this reviewer these factors are 
not sufficient to explain this subject’s hyponatremia. This subject had severe treatment-
emergent hyponatremia and required sodium supplementation for 14 months after the 
diagnosis of hyponatremia, during the time of all nusinersen doses subsequent to the initial 
hyponatremia diagnosis. The subject’s sodium was normal at baseline and during the first study 
month, and the electrolyte composition of human breast milk is reported to be stable after 4 
months postpartum22 (the time of this subject’s study entry). I consider this case of 
hyponatremia to possibly be drug related. 
 
CS3A Subject 1776-2306 AE PT Hyponatraemia:23 Male subject from the United States (2 
months old at study entry) had an adverse event of hyponatremia on Study Day 183 (result: 125 
mmol/L; reference range: 133 to 145 mmol/L) while hospitalized during Study Days 
 for 
serious adverse events (SAEs) of coronavirus infection, bronchiolitis, respiratory failure, and 
seizure.  He was treated with oral sodium chloride 5 mEq as needed beginning on an 
unspecified date during hospitalization (
2014), and sodium returned to 134 mmol/L on 
Study Day 187. Treatment with sodium chloride 5 mEq as needed was continued through an 
unspecified date in 
 2014. On Study Day 442 he had a serum sodium level of 129 
mmol/L at the time of an AE of pyrexia from Study Day 441 to 545).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
22 Wack RP, et al.  Electrolyte composition of human breast milk beyond the early postpartum period. Nutrition. 
1997 Sep;13(9):774-7. 
23 Information request response submitted to NDA 209531 on 11/10/2016.  
Reference ID: 4027874
(b) (6)
(b) (6)
(b) (6)
(b) (6)

===PAGE 72===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
46 
 
Table 19. CS3A Subject 1776-2306. Serum Electrolyte Values and Dates of Nusinersen Administration. 
Date 
(Study Day) 
Potassium 
(Ref. range: 
3.6-5.0 mmol/L) 
Sodium 
(Ref. range: 
136-146 mmol/L) 
Blood urea 
nitrogen 
(Ref. range: 7-20 
mg/dL)
November 8, 2013 (Screening) 
4.7 
136 
9 
Nusinersen Dose 1: November 25, 2013 (Study Day 1) 
Nusinersen Dose 2: December 9, 2013 (Study Day 15) 
January 23, 2014 (Study Day 60) 
4.1 
134 L 
8 
Nusinersen Dose 3: February 24, 2014 (Study Day 92) 
March 3, 2014 (Study Day 99) 
4.8 
135 L 
11 
May 26, 2014 (Study Day 183) 
NA 
125 L 
NA 
May 30,2014 (Study Day 187) 
NA 
134a 
NA 
July 7, 2014 (Study Day 225) 
4.3 
141 
9 
August 8, 2014 (Study Day 257) 
4.6 
137 
11 
Nusinersen Dose 4: August 11, 2014 
November 10, 2014 (Study Day 351) 
3.7 
134 L 
8 
Nusinersen Dose 5: December 11, 2014 
February 9, 2015 (Study Day 442) 
3 L 
129 L 
11 
Nusinersen Dose 6: August 19, 2015 
October 28, 2015 (Study Day 703) 
4.0 
137 
12 
              a Reference range: 133-145 mmol/L 
 
Reviewer comment: This subject had non-drug-related causes for hyponatremia that 
corresponded with the dates of low sodium measurement, including pulmonary infections and 
pyrexia. He also was treated with levetiracetam since Study Day 
 after experiencing seizures. 
Hyponatremia has been reported with levetiracetam treatment.24  
 
CS3B Subject 2010-5096 (AE PT Decreased sodium):25  
 
Male subject from Germany (7 months old at study entry) had an AE of pneumonia on Study 
Day 
, which was treated with ciprofloxacin.  The event of pneumonia was considered 
resolved on Study Day 190. 
 
On Study Day 190, the same day as the latest injection of nusinersen and 189 days after the 
initial injection of nusinersen, the subject experienced AEs of decreased sodium 
(124 mmol/L), decreased chloride (75 mmol/L), decreased potassium (2.4 mmol/L), and 
increased alanine aminotransferase (ALT) [122 U/L] and increased aspartate aminotransferase 
(AST) [83 U/L]).  The subject was also noted to have an AE of weight loss (weight not provided) 
on the same day.  The subject started to receive oral rehydration salt formulations on the same 
day.  On Study Day 197, 7 days after onset, the AEs of decreased sodium, decreased chloride, 
                                                     
24 Nasrallah K. Hyponatremia Associated with Repeated Use of Levetiracetam. Epilepsia, 46(6):972–973, 2005. 
25 Narrative on p. 7 of the 11/8/2016 submission to NDA 209531.  
Reference ID: 4027874
(b) (6)
(b) (6)

===PAGE 73===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
47 
 
and decreased potassium were considered resolved, with these parameters within the normal 
ranges upon retest.  On Study Day 241, the AE of weight loss was considered resolved, and oral 
rehydration salt formulations were continued.   
 
Table 2. CS3B Subject 2010-5096. Serum Electrolyte Values and Dates of Nusinersen 
Administration. 
Date 
(Study Day) 
Sodium 
(mmol/L) 
Blood Urea Nitrogen 
(mmol/L) 
Creatinine 
(µmol/L) 
Potassium 
(mmol/L) 
January 14, 2015 (Screening) 
134 
NA 
NA 
5 
Nusinersen Dose 1: January 27, 2015 
Nusinersen Dose 2: February 10, 2015 
Nusinersen Dose 3: February 24, 2015 
April 13, 2015 (Study Day 77) 
136 
8.568 
17.68 
4.6 
Nusinersen Dose 4: April 14, 2015 
August 4, 2015 (Study Day 190) 
124 L 
2.856 
8.84 
2.4 
Nusinersen Dose 5: August 4, 2015 
August 11, 2015 (Study Day 197) 
143 
NA 
NA 
5 
Nusinersen Dose 6: December 1, 2015 
April 11, 2016 (Study Day 441) 
138 
3.927 
8.84 
3.8 
 
Reviewer comment: This subject had non-drug-related causes for hyponatremia that 
corresponded with the dates of low sodium measurement, including pneumonia and weight 
loss. 
 
 
 
 
Hyponatremia: Conclusion and Labeling Recommendation 
 
Severe treatment-emergent hyponatremia was reported in a nusinersen-treated subject. In the 
opinion of this reviewer, this event is possibly related to nusinersen. In certain drugs (e.g., 
methotrexate,26 cytarabine27) hyponatremia has been reported with intrathecal administration 
but, according to a review of the literature performed by this reviewer, has not been reported 
with other routes of administration.  
 
I recommend including information related to hyponatremia in Warnings and Precautions. I 
recommend checking the serum electrolytes (including sodium) at baseline and prior to each 
maintenance dose of nusinersen.  
 
                                                     
26 Diskin C. Recurrent hyponatremia after intrathecal methotrexate not related to antidiuretic hormone: is a 
natriuretic peptide activated? Am J Med Sci. 2006 Jan;331(1):37-9. 
27 Section 6.2 DepoCyt (cytarabine liposome injection for intrathecal use) Prescribing Information. Accessed on 
11/13/2016 at: http://www.depocyt.com/pdf/DepoCyt%20PI-%20I-070-21-US-
F_Final_20150205151725_737679.pdf 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 74===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
48 
 
8.4.6.1.2. Other Electrolyte Measurements 
 
The incidences of abnormal electrolyte measurements in Study CS3B are displayed in the table 
below.   
 
Table 20. Electrolyte measurement in Study CS3B. 
 
    Source Table 79 Summary of Clinical Safety 
 
Bicarbonate was not routinely measured in the controlled study CS3B. Low bicarbonate levels 
have been described in SMA patients as part of the underlying disease.28 However, low 
bicarbonate levels also may indicate a drug-related toxicity to the proximal renal tubules. Low 
bicarbonate levels in nusinersen subjects are discussed in Section 8.5.1, which discusses renal 
toxicity.   
 
The frequency of treatment-emergent high glucose, as well as mean changes in glucose from 
baseline,29 were similar in nusinersen and control subjects in Study CS3B. High blood glucose 
levels seen in nusinersen subjects have been described in SMA patients.30  
 
8.4.6.1.3. Renal Laboratory Measurements 
 
Renal laboratory measurements are discussed in the Renal Toxicity Section 8.5.1. 
                                                     
28 Crawford TO, et al. Abnormal fatty acid metabolism in childhood spinal muscular atrophy. Ann Neurol. 1999 
Mar;45(3):337-43. 
29 P. 646-647 CS3B Study Report 
30 Bowerman M, et al. Glucose metabolism and pancreatic defects in spinal muscular atrophy. Ann Neurol. 2012 
Aug;72(2):256-68. 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 75===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
49 
 
 
8.4.6.1.4. Hepatic Laboratory Measurements 
 
The liver is considered a target organ of nusinersen, because most antisense oligonucleotides 
accumulate in the liver. Because it is deposited in the liver (see Table 27 with liver tissue 
concentrations from autopsy study CS03APK), nusinersen has the potential for hepatotoxicity. 
 
Liver function tests that are most frequently evaluated [e.g., aspartate aminotransferase (AST), 
alanine aminotransferase (ALT)] can be elevated in patients with SMA.31 With muscle 
degeneration, these enzymes can be released from skeletal muscle.   
 
In Study CS3B, the overall frequency of elevated hepatic laboratory measurements was 
comparable to findings in sham procedure control subjects (see table below).  
 
Table 21. Summary of Shifts from Baseline to High for Hepatic Laboratory Measurements in Study CS3B 
 
Shift to high includes normal to high, low to high, and unknown to high. 
Source Table 79 Summary of Clinical Safety 
 
In all clinical studies, no nusinersen subject had a post-treatment AST level ≥ 3 times the upper 
limit of normal.  There was 1 nusinersen subject with a post-treatment ALT level ≥ 3 times the 
upper limit of normal, and 1 additional nusinersen subject with a post-treatment ALT level  ≥ 5 
times the upper limit of normal: 
 
 Study CS3B Subject 2010-5096: On Study Day 183 this subject had an ALT of 122 U/L 
(normal range 6-34 U/L) 3 hours after administration of his 5th nusinersen dose.  
Aspartate aminotransferase was also elevated at 83 U/L (normal range 10-69 U/L). 
Alkaline phosphatase, total bilirubin, and direct bilirubin were within normal limits.  A 
repeat ALT measurement 1 week later was normal at 40 U/L. There was no information 
submitted about whether treatment was provided. 
                                                     
31 Finkel RS, et al. Observational study of spinal muscular atrophy type I and implications for clinical trials. 
Neurology. 2014 Aug 26; 83(9): 810–817. 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 76===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
50 
 
Reviewer comment: The increased ALT occurred 3 hours after nusinersen administration; 
it is possible that this measurement is related to nusinersen. AST and ALT can also be 
released from muscle tissue, so local tissue injury during the lumbar puncture procedure 
may have contributed to an elevation in these laboratory tests.  
 
 Study CS3B Subject 1776-5097: AST and ALT levels were normal at screening and 183 
days after the first dose of nusinersen. On Study Day 386 (96 days after his 6th 
nusinersen dose), he had an ALT level of 214 U/L (normal range 6-34 U/L), accompanied 
by an increased AST of 155 U/L. Total bilirubin was 1.7 µmol/L (reference range 3.4 – 
20.5 µmol/L), and direct bilirubin was 0.9 µmol/L (reference range 0-6.8 µmol/L). The AE 
was reported as recovered 15 days after the start date. The patient received three doses 
of Tylenol the day prior to the abnormal report and another dose the day of the lab 
draw. 32  No follow-up ALT results after Study Day 386 were reported. No additional 
doses of nusinersen were scheduled after the high ALT measurement.   
Reviewer comment: The amount of acetaminophen consumed was not provided. While a 
role of acetaminophen in this subject’s ALT and AST elevation is possible, the role of 
acetaminophen in this case cannot be assessed because the amount consumed is not 
known.  
 
There were no cases of Hy’s law drug-induced liver injury (ALT increases ≥3 x ULN with 
concomitant elevations in total bilirubin ≥2 x ULN) during treatment in nusinersen clinical 
studies. 
 
Reviewer comment: Nusinersen accumulates in the liver in humans. In Study CS3B, 2 of 55 (4%) 
nusinersen subjects had an alanine aminotransferase (ALT) level greater than 3 times the upper 
limit of normal, compared to 0 of 25 control subjects. 
 
Gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) is a membrane bound enzyme produced primarily in the 
liver, with little or none produced from human skeletal muscle. Because AST and ALT can be 
elevated in patients with SMA, I recommend that GGT be used evaluate for liver toxicity in 
patients taking nusinersen.  
  
I recommend describing hepatic accumulation of nusinersen in the prescribing information. I 
recommend advising prescribers to check hepatic tests including gamma-glutamyl transferase 
(GGT) and bilirubin at baseline and before each maintenance dose of nusinersen. 
 
8.4.6.2. Hematology Laboratory Measurements 
 
                                                     
32 P. 11 Sponsor information request response submitted to NDA 209531 on 9/23/2016.  
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 77===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
51 
 
8.4.6.2.1. Thrombocytopenia 
 
In Study CS3B, 6 of 56 (11%) nusinersen subjects had a platelet level below the lower limit of 
normal (LLN), compared to 0 of 28 control subjects. In all nusinersen subjects, 3 of 145 (2%) had 
thrombocytopenia <100 x 109/L. No subject had a platelet count <50 x 109/L, and there were no 
adverse events related to thrombocytopenia.  
 
Thrombocytopenia Conclusion and Labeling Recommendation 
 
Reviewer comment: In clinical studies, thrombocytopenia occurred more frequently in 
nusinersen subjects compared to sham procedure control subjects. Thrombocytopenia has been 
seen in other drugs in the oligonucleotide class. In studies of the oligonucleotide drisapersen,33 
an increased risk of thrombocytopenia that was mild in severity occurred in the controlled 
studies. However, after longer exposures of 10-29 months, severe thrombocytopenia <20 x 109/L 
occurred in 2% of subjects. The nusinersen clinical development program has fewer patients 
exposed to treatment for at least 1 year (83 patients compared to 223 patients in drisapersen 
studies). It is unclear whether severe thrombocytopenia may occur in nusinersen-treated 
patients with additional person-years exposure with a longer duration of treatment.  
 
I recommend that thrombocytopenia be described in Warnings and Precautions. As part of 
nusinersen administration, patients undergo lumbar puncture, a procedure which has a risk of 
bleeding complications.  Patients should obtain a complete blood count prior to each nusinersen 
administration. Patients and providers should be instructed to be vigilant for signs or symptoms 
of thrombocytopenia.  
8.4.6.2.2. Other Hematology Laboratory Measurements 
 
Shifts in Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)34 toxicity grade from 
baseline for hematology laboratory measurements in Study CS3B are summarized in the table 
below; results are similar between the nusinersen and control groups.  
 
                                                     
33 Pages 229-236 of the FDA Briefing Document for the November 24, 2015 Peripheral and Central Nervous System 
Drugs Advisory Committee Meeting to discuss NDA 206031, drisapersen solution for injection. Accessed on 
11/2/2016 at: 
http://www.fda.gov/downloads/advisorycommittees/committeesmeetingmaterials/drugs/peripheralandcentralne
rvoussystemdrugsadvisorycommittee/ucm473737.pdf 
34 Accessed on 11/17/2016 at:  
https://evs.nci.nih.gov/ftp1/CTCAE/CTCAE_4.03_2010-06-14_QuickReference_8.5x11.pdf 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 78===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
52 
 
Table 22. Shifts in Toxicity Grades from Baseline for Hematology Laboratory Measurements in Study CS3B 
 
 
 
 
Source: Appendix 1 Information Amendments submitted to NDA 209531 on 9/23/2016 
-Hemoglobin CTC Grade Ranges in G/L Units: 0: ≥LLN; 1: ≥100 - <LLN; 2: ≥ 80 - <100; 3: ≥65 - <80; 4: <65. 
- White blood cell decreased Ranges in 109/L Units: 0: ≥LLN; 1: 3.0-LLN; 2: ≥ 2.0 – 3.0; 3: ≥ 1.0-2.0; 4: <1.0. 
-Platelet CTC Grade Ranges in 109/L Units: 0: ≥LLN; 1: ≥ 75 - <LLN; 2: ≥50 - <75; 3: ≥25 - <50; 4: <25. 
-Lymphocytes decreased CTC Grade Ranges in 109/L Units: 0: ≥LLN, 1: < LLN - 0.8, 2: <0.8 - 0.5, 3: <0.5 - 0.2, 4: <0.2. 
- Neutrophils CTC Grade Ranges in 10^9/L Units: 0: ≥LLN; 1: ≥1.5 - <LLN; 2: ≥ 1.0 - <1.5: 3: ≥0.5 - <1.0; 4: <0.5. 
 
8.4.6.3. Coagulation Laboratory Measurements 
 
Prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) has been described with other 
phosphorothioate oligonucleotides.35-36 
 
In nusinersen clinical studies, the available data for coagulation laboratory tests are limited.  
Scheduled post-baseline coagulation laboratory testing was performed only in Study CS2,37 
which includes 9 subjects treated with nusinersen 12 mg and 25 other subjects with nusinersen 
doses ranging from 3-9 mg. Coagulation laboratory tests were sporadically measured in other 
clinical studies.  The table below summarizes shifts from baseline (high or low) for aPTT and 
international normalized ratio (INR) for all measurements (scheduled measurements in Study 
CS2 and sporadic measurements from other studies). Ten of 53 (19%) nusinersen subjects had a 
shift to high aPTT.  
 
                                                     
35 Sheehan JP, Lan HC. Phosphorothioate oligonucleotides inhibit the intrinsic tenase complex. Blood. 1998 Sep 
1;92(5):1617-25. Phase I trial of ISIS 104838, a 2'-methoxyethyl modified antisense oligonucleotide targeting tumor 
necrosis factor-alpha. 
36 Sewell KL, et al. Phase I trial of ISIS 104838, a 2'-methoxyethyl modified antisense oligonucleotide targeting 
tumor necrosis factor-alpha. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2002 Dec;303(3):1334-43. 
37 Table 1 Multiple Module Information Amendment. Submitted to NDA 209531 on 11/18/2016.  
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 79===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
53 
 
Table 23. Summary of Shifts from Baseline for Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time 
(aPTT) and International Normalized Ratio (INR) 
 
 
 
Source: Table 4 Sponsor submission to NDA 209531 on 11/17/2016 
 
Coagulation Laboratory Measurements: Conclusion and Labeling Recommendation 
 
As part of nusinersen administration, patients undergo lumbar puncture, a procedure which has 
a risk of bleeding complications.  Patients should have coagulation laboratory testing at 
baseline and prior to each nusinersen maintenance dose. 
 
 
 
8.4.7. Vital Signs 
 
In controlled study CS3B, vital signs were measured at: a) screening; b) at study visits for doses 
1-3 and 5 (pre-dose, post-dose, and 1 day after dosing);38 and c) at study visits scheduled for 
Study Days 120, 302, and 394.39 Analyses of the number and percentage of Study CS3B subjects 
meeting vital sign outlier criteria post-baseline are displayed in the table below.  
 
                                                     
38 Study visits were scheduled for Study Days 1, 2, 15, 16, 29, 30, 211, and 212.  
39 Appendix A Study CS3B Study Report 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 80===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
54 
 
Table 24. Study CS3B Vital Sign Outlier Analyses. Changes from Baseline.  
 
Source: Appendix 8. Sponsor information request response submitted to NDA 209531 on 9/23/2016. 
bpm = beats per minute 
 
Decreases in pulse rate >15 bpm or >30 bpm from baseline were more frequent in nusinersen 
subjects compared to sham procedure control subjects. The reference range of normal heart 
rate in children (stratified by age and by whether the child is sleeping or awake) is displayed in 
the table below.  
 
Table 25. Reference Range of Normal Heart Rate in Children 
 
Source: Pediatric Advanced Life Support (PALS) 2010 
 
Five of 80 (6%) nusinersen subjects had an adverse event coded to the PT Bradycardia, 
compared to 4 of 41 (10%) sham procedure control subjects. One of 80 (1%) nusinersen 
subjects had a post-treatment low heart rate recorded in the Study CS3B vital signs dataset40 
(Subject 2008-5118 heart rate 70 bpm), compared to 1 of 41 (2%) sham procedure control 
subjects (Subject 2003-5201 heart rate 71).  
 
                                                     
40 Analysis of Summary of Clinical Safety vital sign dataset ADVS. Sleeping versus awake status during a vital sign 
measurement was not recorded in clinical studies. Reference range criteria for sleeping children were used.  
Subject CS3B subjects ranged from 1-9 months of age at study entry.  
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 81===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
55 
 
Reviewer comment: In most cases, decreases in heart rate described in Table 24 were not 
associated with a bradycardia adverse event. Short term variations in heart rate are part of 
normal homeostatic mechanisms of the cardiovascular system.41  
 
Reviewer comment: A heart rate of 32 for Study CS3B subject 2007-5136 was reported on Study 
Day 183 (1 hour post-nusinersen dosing). This was a transcription error; the actual heart rate 
was 132 bpm.42 
 
8.4.8. Electrocardiograms (ECGs) 
 
ECG qualitative results include an overall interpretation of ‘normal’, ‘abnormal but not clinically 
significant’ or ‘abnormal and clinically significant’. This type of evaluation is available for 
infantile-onset SMA subjects only (Pools B and C only) and later-onset SMA subjects (Pool E). 
 
In Study CS3B, ECGs were centrally read and scheduled at screening, on Study Day 2 (1 day after 
the first dose), on Study Day 29 post-dose after the third dose, and on Study Day 394 
(approximately 92 days after the sixth dose).  Five subjects (8%) in the nusinersen group and 
none in the sham-controlled group shifted from normal or unknown at baseline to abnormal, 
clinically significant post-baseline:43 
 Subject 2037-5063 (4 month old male) had a shift from a normal ECG to an abnormal 
ECG with “marked sinus tachycardia.” He had a normal ECG on Study Day 2 with a 
Fridericia-corrected QT interval (QTcF) of 363. On Study Day 29, he had normal vital 
signs predose but had a heart rate in the 180’s measured 1-4 hours postdose. Mean 
ventricular rate on the ECG taken on Study Day 29, 3.5 hours post-nusinersen dosing, 
was 180 beats per minute, and QTcF was 566 msec. Concomitant medications at the 
time of the event included lidocaine/prilocaine as local anesthesia, nitrous oxide as 
sedation for the Day 29 injection of nusinersen. The subject had an AE of 
cardiopulmonary arrest on Study Day 
during an episode of respiratory infection 
with acute respiratory distress; the subject’s most recent study exposure prior to that 
adverse event was on Study Day 70. The subject recovered and continued in the study 
with last exposure to study drug on Study Day 183 (no subsequent ECG results have 
been reported). 
Reviewer comment: Cases of QT prolongation in nusinersen subjects are discussed in 
Section 8.4.9.  
 Subject 1833-5261 (6 month old female) had a shift from a normal ECG to an ECG read 
as an “increase in right ventricular forces” on Study Day 2, approximately 24 hours after 
                                                     
41 Finley JP, et al. Heart rate variability in infants, children and young adults. Journal of the Autonomic Nervous 
System 51.2 (1995): 103-108. 
42 Information request response submitted to NDA 209531 on 11/23/2016. 
43 Response to FDA IR submitted to NDA 209531 on 11/30/2016. 
Reference ID: 4027874
(b) (6)

===PAGE 82===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
56 
 
the first nusinersen dose, as well as on Study Day 57,  3 hours after the second 
nusinersen dose. Blood pressure and heart rate measurements were within normal 
ranges. Lead misplacement was cited as a possible cause. On Study Days 84 and 274, 
echocardiograms were reported as normal. ECGs on Study Days 273 and 397 were 
reported as normal.  
Reviewer comment: The subject had 2 echocardiograms, which were read as normal and 
did not indicate a right ventricular abnormality. Findings of right axis deviation and 
prominent anterior forces on ECG can occur for reasons other than right ventricular 
hypertrophy, including a not-infrequent normal variant44.  
 Subject 2037-5139 (3 month old female) had a shift from a normal ECG at baseline and 
on Study Day 2 (1 day after the first nusinersen dose) to a predose ECG on Study Day 14 
(13 days after the first nusinersen dose) with “marked and unusual ST elevations in 
almost every lead that were consistent with pericarditis or some kind of artifact.” On an 
Unscheduled Visit on Study Day 23 (9 days following the latest injection of nusinersen 
and 22 days after the initial injection of nusinersen), a follow-up ECG showed normal 
results. 
Reviewer comment: These ECG abnormalities are likely related to an artifact. No AEs 
related to pericarditis were reported, and the subject had a normal ECG 9 days later.  
 Subject 1780-5032 (7 month old female) had a shift from a normal ECG at baseline to 
“right atrial enlargement and likely benign ventricular hypertrophy” on an ECG 
performed 2 hours after administration of the third dose on Study Day 29. (A repeat ECG 
performed minutes later on the same day showed the same results.) Two-hour postdose 
blood pressure and heart rate were 98/53 mmHg and 135 bpm, respectively. No 
treatment for the event or additional work-up was reported, and no follow-up ECG 
results were provided. 
 Subject 2037-5009 (5 month old female) had a shift from a normal ECG at baseline and 
on Study Day 2 (1 day after the first nusinersen dose) to an abnormal ECG on Study Day 
46 (3 hours after the 3rd nusinersen dose) with axis deviation and prominent right 
ventricular forces consistent with probable right ventricular hypertrophy. No treatment 
for the event was reported, and no follow-up ECG results were provided. 
Reviewer comment: The abnormal ECG findings for Subjects 1780-5032 and 2037-5009 
are of unclear significance. In both cases no follow-up ECG was available.  
 
 
Reviewer comment: Other than the findings (sinus tachycardia and prolonged QTcF) in Subject 
2037-5063, these cases do not represent clinically significant cardiac disease (Subjects 1833-
5261 and 2037-5139) or are of unclear clinical significance (Subjects 1780-5032 and 2037-5009).  
 
Study CS3B Subject 2112-5101 (treated with nusinersen 12 mg) had ventricular tachycardia; the 
last dose prior to the event was on Day 29, and the event occurred on Day 59. At the time, the 
                                                     
44 Hancock EW, et al. AHA/ACCF/HRS Recommendations for the Standardization and Interpretation of the 
Electrocardiogram Part V.  J Am Coll Cardiol. 2009;53(11):992-1002. 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 83===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
57 
 
subject also had a respiratory infection and difficulty breathing and was treated with an 
antibiotic. The event resolved, and the subject continued to participate in the study. This 
subject had a QTc of 527 msec at screening, prior to exposure to nusinersen, which decreased 
to 400 msec on Day 2 and 490 msec on Day 29. 
 
Study CS3B Subject 2037-5167 (treated with nusinersen 12 mg) died during sleep on Day 82. 
This subject had neither ECG values above 500 msec nor any increase of >30 msec (baseline: 
408 msec, Day 2: 404 msec, Day: 29 415 msec). 
 
In Study CS3A, 3 subjects had postdose ECG abnormalities that had initial ECG findings 
suggestive of ventricular hypertrophy. In each of these 3 cases, echocardiograms were 
performed as a result of the abnormal ECG findings. In each case the subject had an 
echocardiogram that was read as normal.45 
 
In Study SM201, no clinically significant abnormal ECG results were reported. AEs associated 
with ECG abnormalities (tachycardia) were reported in 2 subjects. 
 
In the later-onset studies, no clinically significant changes were reported as an AE for ECG 
findings. 
 
Reviewer comment: Other than the case of prolonged QTcF, the ECG data discussed in this 
section does not indicate a cardiac safety issue with nusinersen.  
8.4.9. QT  
 
No thorough QT study has been performed with nusinersen. There were no AEs of torsade de 
pointes in any clinical study. 
 
The table below summarizes the incidence of outliers in ECGs based on Fridericia-corrected QT 
interval. 
 
                                                     
45 CS3A Study Report Section 12.4.4. 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 84===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
58 
 
Table 26. Study CS3B. Incidence of Outliers in ECGs Based on Fridericia-corrected QT 
Interval 
 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety Source Table 91 
ISIS 396443 = nusinersen 
QTcF = Fridericia-corrected QT interval 
 
In Study CS3B, 4 of 80 (5%) of nusinersen subjects had had a QTc value above 500 milliseconds 
(msec) and an increase of >60 msec compared to baseline, compared to 0 sham procedure 
control subjects.46 All ECGs meeting these criteria were performed 3.5-24 hours after 
nusinersen administration. However, most ECGS were scheduled in this time period.47 Only 
Subject 2037-5063 received sedation or anesthesia during the lumbar puncture procedure prior 
to the prolonged QTcF measurement. Electrolytes were not measured on the days of the 
prolonged QTcF measurements, which occurred on Study Days 2 or 29. These subjects did not 
have electrolyte abnormalities at screening or at the next measurement (Study Day 64). 
 
No subjects from other studies had these changes in QTcF compared to baseline.  
 
                                                     
46 CS3B subjects with a QTc value above 500 milliseconds (msec) and an increase of >60 msec compared from 
baseline included Subjects 2037-5063 (discussed in detail in Section 8.4.8), 2007-5360, 2010-5096, and 2112-5018.  
Data provided in the response to FDA IR submitted to NDA 209531 on 11/30/2016.  
47 Only scheduled ECGs on Study Day 394 were not obtained within 24 hours post-dose. Sixteen nusinersen 
subjects and 7 control subject received ECGs on Study Day 394.  
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 85===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
59 
 
Reviewer comment: The Division of Neurology Products (DNP) consulted The Division of 
Cardiovascular and Renal Products (DCRP) regarding changes in QTcF in subjects treated with 
nusinersen (ISIS 396446) in Study CS3B. DCRP provided the following comments:48 
 
ISIS 396443 is an antisense antisense oligonucleotide. We are not aware of other small 
therapeutic proteins that directly inhibit the hERG channel and cause QTc interval 
prolongation.  However, the sponsor has not conducted in vitro safety pharmacology 
studies to rule out such a mechanism.  
It’s difficult to determine from the clinical data whether ISIS 396443 affects cardiac 
repolarization as measured by QTc prolongation.  The primary evidence for QTc 
prolongation is based on outlier QTcF values observed in four subjects in the ISIS 
396443 group in Study CS3B.  There are important limitations in QTc data that cause 
uncertainty in its interpretation. 
 The methods for ECG acquisition and QTc measurement were not described in 
either the protocol or clinical study report (CSR).  It is not known if the ECGs 
showing QTcF values exceeding 500 msec were verified by a Cardiologist (CSR 
states that ECGs were read centrally at 
).  
Furthermore, there were no repeat ECGs to confirm the finding or follow-up ECGs to 
determine when the QTc interval returned to normal value.  
 The QTc interval data are highly variable and difficult to interpret. In the ISIS 
396446 group, mean and median changes from baseline QTcF were ±5 msec, but the 
standard deviation was large (~40 msec) and values ranged from -167 msec to +123 
msec on Day 2 and -141 msec to +144 msec on Day 29.  A similar large variability 
was observed in the sham-controlled group and the percentage of subjects with a 
change from baseline QTcF >60 msec was also similar (7% for control vs. 6% for 
ISIS 396443). 
 The timing of the ECGs relative to dosing of ISIS 396443 was variable and did 
not coincide with peak ISIS 396443 concentrations that occur between 2-6 h after 
intrathecal (IT) dosing. 
 
Prolonged QTc interval in individual patients could have also occurred for reasons related 
to concomitant medications, the underlying disease or associated adverse events related 
to the disease.   
The potential for ISIS 396443 to delay cardiac repolarization should be evaluated in a 
dedicated QT study.  If ISIS 396443 cannot be given to healthy volunteers, high quality 
12-lead ECGs (replicate, digital ECGs) can be incorporated in on-going controlled 
clinical trials in patients to characterize the QTc interval.  Based on DNP’s assessment of 
benefit-risk of ISIS 396443 in this patient population, it may be reasonable to design the 
QT study to rule out large effects (>20 msec) on QTc interval in patients. 
                                                     
48 QT-IRT consultation dated 12/8/2016. 
Reference ID: 4027874
(b) (4)

===PAGE 86===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
60 
 
For the USPI, we recommend that the QTc data are described in Section 12.2 
(Pharmacodynamics).  We do not recommend including statements in Section
 because there is uncertainty in these clinical QTc data.  We 
defer the final labeling decisions to the Division. 
 
Section 12.2  Pharmacodynamics 
QTc Interval Prolongation 
In 120 patients with spinal muscular atrophy randomized to receive either SPINRAZA or 
sham-control, QTcF values >500 msec and change from baseline values >60 msec were 
observed in 5% of patients receiving SPINRAZA. There were not any differences from 
the sham-control in the incidence of cardiac adverse reactions associated with delayed 
ventricular repolarization. 
 
Reviewer comment: This reviewer agrees with the recommendation from DCRP to describe the 
frequency of subjects in Study CS3B with QTcF values >500 msec and change from baseline 
values >60 in Section 12 of the U.S. Prescribing Information (USPI). 
 
 
  DNP has also requested that the nusinersen Sponsor perform a 
repeat ECG for any QTc measurement greater than 500 msec. 
 
8.4.10. 
Immunogenicity 
 
Plasma samples from all 7 clinical studies were analyzed for anti-drug antibody (ADA) presence. 
In the initial analyses (using a 0.1% false-positive rate), no clinical immunogenicity samples 
were positive for anti-drug antibodies in Studies CS1, CS2, CS10, and SM201. In study CS12, 2 
out of 47 (4%) subjects (1433 and 1447) were classified as ADA positive.  In Study CS3A, 1 out of 
20 (5%) (Subject 1834-1301) was classified as ADA positive. In Study CS3B, 1 out of 113 (1%) 
(Subject 2006-5071) was classified as ADA positive.49  
 
Three of the 4 ADA-positive subjects were considered to have a transient response (1 positive 
sample, with all samples before and after being negative), 1 subject in Study CS12 was 
considered to have a persistent response, based on 4 samples evaluated from predose to Day 
351 of treatment. The reported titer values for the 4 ADA positive subjects ranged from 1 to 16. 
 
Reviewer comment: A sensitivity analysis was performed using a new confirmatory cut point 
with a 1% false positive rate.50 Based on the sensitivity analysis criteria, 1 additional subject was 
identified as having an ADA-positive result. Subject 2000-5203, a nusinersen-treated subject in 
Study CS3B, had a positive ADA response at a single time point on Day 183, with negative 
confirmation and negative ADA screening results for days 302 and 394, respectively. 
                                                     
49 10/16/2016 submission to NDA 209531 
50 11/29/2016 submission to NDA 209531 
Reference ID: 4027874
(b) (4)
(b) (4)
(b) (4)

===PAGE 87===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
61 
 
 
Three subjects from Study CS3B (5185, 5201, and 5332)51 had ADA positive samples but had not 
been exposed to nusinersen at the time of sampling. These results were not considered related 
to nusinersen and were not counted in the paragraphs above.  
 
I have reviewed the adverse events for each of the 5 subjects with positive ADA samples after 
nusinersen treatment. Adverse events in these subjects included manifestations of SMA and 
complications of lumbar puncture. There was no apparent effect of ADA development on the 
adverse events in these subjects.  
 
8.5. 
Analysis of Submission-Specific Safety Issues  
 
8.5.1. Renal Toxicity 
 
Introduction 
 
Accumulation of nusinersen52 and other phosphorothioate oligonucleotides53 in proximal 
tubule cells of the kidney has been described in studies of mice.  In an autopsy study (Study 
CS03APK) of 3 patients who received nusinersen in Study CS3A, tissue concentrations in the 
kidney were similar to concentrations in the lumbar spinal cord (see tables below).54  
                                                     
51 Subject 1778-5332 was in the nusinersen treatment group tested positive for ADA pre-dose on Study Day 1. 
Subjects 2003-5201 and 2007-5185 were in sham control group of Study CS3B.  
52 P. 32 Nonclinical Overview. Submitted to NDA 209531 on 8/9/2016. 
53 Rappaport J, et al. Transport of phosphorothioate oligonucleotides in kidney: implications for molecular therapy. 
Kidney Int. 1995 May;47(5):1462-9. 
54 P. 54 of the CS03APK Study Report. Submitted to NDA 209531 on 9/23/2016. 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 88===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
62 
 
 
Table 27. Nusinersen (ISIS 396443) Tissue Concentrations in Human Spinal Cord after Treatment  
 
Source:  Table 1 CS03APK Study Report 
 
Table 28. Nusinersen (ISIS 396443) Tissue Concentrations in Additional Human Tissues after Treatment 
 
Source:  Table 3 CS03APK Study Report 
 
Adverse Events 
There were no renal toxicity adverse events in clinical studies. In an analysis of clinical study 
adverse events, 1 AE was found in a search using the MedDRA Acute renal failure SMQ. Study 
CS3B Subject 2019-5108 (4 month old male with symptomatic infantile onset SMA treated with 
nusinersen 12 mg) had an AE coded to PT Urine output decreased. This event is related to a 
hypoxic cardiac arrest and rhinovirus infection and is not related to nusinersen.  
 
Serum Markers of Renal Function  
Creatinine as a marker of renal function may have limited value in SMA patients, because of 
reduced muscle mass. Cystatin C has been evaluated as a biomarker for monitoring renal 
function. 55  In clinical studies, no nusinersen subject had a treatment-emergent high level of 
serum creatinine or cystatin C.56   
                                                     
55 Violett L. Utility of Cystatin C to monitor renal function in Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Muscle Nerve. 2009 
September ; 40(3): 438–442.  This study demonstrates the potential value of cystatin C as a biomarker for 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 89===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
63 
 
 
Urine Protein  
In controlled study CS3B, 17 of 51 (33%) nusinersen subjects had treatment-emergent 
proteinuria (to trace level or higher), compared to 5/25 (20%) sham control subjects.57 In later-
onset SMA subjects (Pool E), 36 of 52 (69%) nusinersen subjects had treatment-emergent 
proteinuria.58  
 
Reviewer comment: In clinical studies, urine protein was measured semi-quantitatively with 
urine dipstick testing. (Results were categorized as negative, trace, 1+, or 2+. No subject had a 
3+ or 4+ urine protein measurement.) Quantitative urine protein measurements were not 
routinely performed in nusinersen clinical studies. 
 
The levels of proteinuria seen in nusinersen clinical studies are consistent with significant 
proteinuria. In a published study of more than 2000 patients,59 a urine dipstick for proteinuria of 
trace or 1+ was predictive of significant proteinuria (urine protein-to-creatinine ratio ≥500 
mg/g) if the specific gravity was ≤ 1.025. In nusinersen clinical studies, 90% of urine specific 
gravity measurements were ≤ 1.025.  
 
With tubular proteinuria, urine dipstick findings are often falsely negative.60  Proteinuria with 
nusinersen treatment is likely tubular in origin. Accumulation of nusinersen61 and other 
phosphorothioate oligonucleotides62 in proximal tubule cells of the kidney has been described in 
studies of mice.  The standard urine dipstick primarily detects albumin but is relatively 
insensitive to lower molecular weight proteins (e.g., beta2-microglobulin) that are major 
constituents of tubular proteinuria.  
 
Other Urinalysis Results 
In Study CS3B, other urine dipstick testing results in nusinersen subjects were similar to results 
in sham procedure control subjects, including urine pH, glucose, ketones, and bilirubin.63  
                                                                                                                                                                           
monitoring renal function in Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Its applicability extends to other neuromuscular 
diseases. 
56 Source Tables 79-80 for the Summary of Clinical Safety. Submitted to NDA 209531 on 9/23/2016. 
57 Source Table 81 for the Summary of Clinical Safety. Submitted to NDA 209531 on 9/23/2016.  
58 Source Table 82 for the Summary of Clinical Safety. Submitted to NDA 209531 on 9/23/2016. 
59 Constantiner M, Sehgal AR, Humbert L, et al. A dipstick protein and specific gravity algorithm accurately predicts 
pathological proteinuria. Am J Kidney Dis 2005; 45:833. 
60 Table 61 National Kidney Foundation Kidney Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative (NKF KDOQI). Accessed 
11/18/2016 at: http://www2.kidney.org/professionals/kdoqi/guidelines_ckd/p5_lab_g5.htm 
61 P. 32 Nonclinical Overview. Submitted to NDA 209531 on 8/9/2016. 
62 Rappaport J, et al. Transport of phosphorothioate oligonucleotides in kidney: implications for molecular therapy. 
Kidney Int. 1995 May;47(5):1462-9. 
63 Source Table 81 Summary of Clinical Safety. Submitted to NDA 209531 on 9/23/2016. 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 90===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
64 
 
 
Serum Bicarbonate 
 
Serum electrolyte data were reviewed to evaluate for signs of renal tubular dysfunction. (An 
overall discussion serum electrolyte laboratory results is located in Section 8.4.6.) Treatment-
emergent low serum bicarbonate occurred in 32 of 48 (67%) of nusinersen subjects.64 Serum 
bicarbonate testing was not routinely performed in Study CS3B,65 so serum bicarbonate data 
from the control group are not available for comparison.  
 
Reviewer comment: Metabolic acidosis has been described in SMA patients.66 However, a drug-
related effect may also be a factor.  Accumulation of nusinersen67 and other phosphorothioate 
oligonucleotides68 in proximal tubule cells of the kidney has been described in studies of mice. 
Low serum bicarbonate levels (from reduced bicarbonate reabsorption) are characteristic of 
proximal (Type 2) renal tubular acidosis (RTA).  
 
Proteinuria and low serum bicarbonate are seen with generalized proximal tubular dysfunction 
(Fanconi syndrome). Other features of Fanconi Syndrome (hypophosphatemia, glycosuria) were 
not reported in Study CS3B and were infrequent in other clinical studies.69  
 
Renal Toxicity: Conclusion and Labeling Recommendation 
 
An increased frequency of proteinuria was seen with nusinersen in clinical studies. Proteinuria 
is a cause of progressive kidney damage. 70 Renal toxicity is a class effect of oligonucleotides, 
and nephrotic range proteinuria complicated by life-threatening thromboses and bilateral 
pulmonary emboli was reported in drisapersen,71 another phosphorothioate oligonucleotide.  
                                                     
64 Source Table 80 Summary of Clinical Safety. Submitted to NDA 209531 on 9/23/2016. 
65 One subject in the Study CS3B control group had a post-treatment serum bicarbonate measurement, which was 
within the range of normal.  
66 Finkel RS, et al. Observational study of spinal muscular atrophy type I and implications for clinical trials. 
Neurology. 2014 Aug 26; 83(9): 810–817. 
67 P. 32 Nonclinical Overview. Submitted to NDA 209531 on 8/9/2016. 
68 Rappaport J, et al. Transport of phosphorothioate oligonucleotides in kidney: implications for molecular therapy. 
Kidney Int. 1995 May;47(5):1462-9. 
69 Two of 149 (1%) nusinersen subjects had treatment-emergent low phosphate, and 2 of 145 (1%) had treatment-
emergent glycosuria. (Source Table 80 Summary of Clinical Safety).   
70 Abbate M, Zoja C, Remuzzi G. How does proteinuria cause progressive renal damage? J Am Soc Nephrol. 2006 
Nov;17(11):2974-84. 
71 P. 236 FDA Briefing Document. Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee Meeting 
November 24, 2015. NDA 206031 Drisapersen. Accessed 11/13/2016 at: 
http://www.fda.gov/downloads/advisorycommittees/committeesmeetingmaterials/drugs/peripheralandcentralne
rvoussystemdrugsadvisorycommittee/ucm473737.pdf 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 91===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
65 
 
Treatment-emergent low serum bicarbonate measurements occurred in 67% of nusinersen 
subjects.  
 
I recommend describing the risk of proteinuria in Warnings and Precautions. I recommend 
quantitative spot urine protein testing (preferably using a first morning specimen) at baseline 
and prior to each nusinersen maintenance dose. Quantitative testing for urine protein should 
also be performed in any ongoing and future clinical studies of nusinersen. I also recommend 
testing for serum electrolytes (including bicarbonate) at baseline and prior to each maintenance 
dose.  
 
8.5.2. Neurologic Toxicity 
 
Introduction 
Neurologic toxicity can occur with intrathecal (spinal) drug delivery. Toxicity after intrathecal 
drug delivery can be a result of the active drug itself, excipients, buffers, solubility enhancers, or 
preservatives.72 
 
 
 
Nonclinical Studies 
Reviewer comment: For additional detail regarding the preclinical study findings, the reader is 
referred to the Pharmacology/Toxicology review by Dr. Edward Fisher. The following 
information was obtained from Dr. Fisher’s review.  
 
Evidence of neurotoxicity was reported in nonclinical studies of nusinersen in juvenile 
cynomolgus monkeys.  Some animals showed dose-dependent hippocampal vacuolization (in 
both the 14-week study 396443-AS03 and the 53-week study 396443-AS06) with possible 
treatment-related changes in learning test performance. In the hippocampus, necrotic cells 
were identified in some monkeys who received high dose or middle dose nusinersen; findings 
correlated with duration of treatment. In the 14-week study, single necrotic neurons or glial 
cells were observed in monkeys treated with high dose nusinersen. In the 53 week study, 
necrotic cells in the hippocampus were seen in some monkeys treated with middle dose or high 
dose nusinersen, but the cell type(s) could not be identified. In low dose or control monkeys, no 
hippocampal cell necrosis or vacuolization was observed. In addition, there were decreases in 
reflexes measured within 48 hours of administering high dose nusinersen. 
                                                     
72 The Sponsor has confirmed that the solution is free of preservatives in Section 3 of the proposed prescribing 
information submitted to NDA 209531 on September 23, 2016.  
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 92===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
66 
 
Clinical Studies 
Adverse events in the Nervous System Disorders SOC from Study CS3B and in all 
nusinersen subjects are summarized in the table below.  
 
Table 29. Adverse events in the Nervous System Disorders SOC. Summary of Clinical Safety Analysis.  
 
Study CS3B: 
Nusinersen (N=80) 
Study CS3B: 
Control (N=41) 
All Nusinersen 
subjects (N=173) 
Nervous system disorders SOC 
8 (10) 
2 (5) 
49 (28) 
Headache 
0 
0 
29 (17) 
Muscle contractions involuntary 
1 (1) 
0 
4 (2) 
Nystagmus 
2 (3) 
1 (2) 
3 (2) 
Drooling 
1 (1) 
0 
2 (1) 
Hypoaesthesia 
0 
0 
2 (1) 
Seizure 
1 (1) 
0 
2 (1) 
Syncope 
0 
0 
2 (1) 
Aphonia 
0 
0 
1 (<1) 
Brain injury 
1 (1) 
0 
1 (<1) 
Cerebral infarction 
0 
0 
1 (<1) 
Cerebrospinal fluid leakage 
0 
0 
1 (<1) 
Clonus 
1 (1) 
0 
1 (<1) 
Dysgeusia 
0 
0 
1 (<1) 
Dyslexia 
0 
0 
1 (<1) 
Hyperreflexia 
0 
0 
1 (<1) 
Hypotonia 
0 
0 
1 (<1) 
Hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy 
1 (1) 
0 
1 (<1) 
Lethargy 
0 
0 
1 (<1) 
Migraine 
0 
0 
1 (<1) 
Paraesthesia 
0 
0 
1 (<1) 
Somnolence 
1 (1) 
0 
1 (<1) 
Tremor 
0 
0 
1 (<1) 
Presyncope 
0 
1 (2) 
0 
Source: Summary of Clinical Safety Source Tables 
 
In controlled study CS3B, 2 of 80 (3%) nusinersen-treated subjects had serious adverse 
events (SAEs) in the Nervous system disorders SOC, compared to 0 of 41 sham 
procedure-controlled subjects. However, these SAEs were related to complications of 
SMA: 
 
 SAE PT Brain injury: Subject 1780-5032 (9 month old female; age of symptomatic 
onset 2 months; age at first nusinersen dose 8 months), required ventilatory 
support including daily Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure (BiPAP), cough assist, and 
suctioning. On Study Day 
 days after last nusinersen dose), the subject 
developed a community acquired pneumonia, uncompensated shock, apnea, 
and hypothermia. She was treated and discharge from the hospital.   On Study 
Reference ID: 4027874
(b) (6)

===PAGE 93===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
67 
 
Day 
, she had a respiratory arrest at home with hypoxic brain injury (SAE PT 
Brain Injury) after which she was unresponsive. On Study Day 
 she had an AE 
of Seizure.  On Day 
, mechanical support was discontinued, and the subject 
died.  
Reviewer comment: This SAE of Brain injury occurred in a subject with chronic 
respiratory failure in the setting of advanced SMA and is unlikely related to 
nusinersen.  
 
 SAE PT Hypoxic-ischaemic encephalopathy: Subject 2000-5145 (4 month old 
male; age of symptomatic onset 2 months; age at first nusinersen dose 4 
months) had a cardiac arrest after aspirating post-nasogastric tube feeding on 
Study Day 
latest injection of nusinersen, 
respectively). He had an SAE of Hypoxic-ischaemic encephalopathy, and his 
family requested to withdraw respiratory support. He died the same day.  
Reviewer comment: Aspiration is a common complication of SMA73, and this SAE 
is unlikely related to nusinersen.   
 
In Pool F (all nusinersen-treated subjects), 1 additional subject had an SAE in the 
Nervous system disorders SOC: 
 
 SAE PT Seizure: Study CS3A Subject 1776-2306 (8 month old male; age of 
symptomatic onset 1 month; age at first nusinersen dose 2 months) had a history 
of acute respiratory failure diagnosed on Study days 
. He received a 
tracheostomy on Study Day 
 and received nighttime BiPAP. On Study Day 
 he had an episode of right eye deviation with EEG showing left hemispheric 
seizures. He had no prior history of seizures. An MRI showed two sub-acute 
punctate cortical-based areas of restricted diffusion in the right frontal lobe, 
which were new compared to the prior MRI, likely representing acute or sub-
acute infarcts (AE Cerebral infarction). 
Reviewer comment: The etiology of this patient’s seizures and cerebral infarction 
is unclear. These events are possibly related to nusinersen. There was no known 
risk factor or potential cause for cerebral infarction reported in this patient74 
(e.g., cardiac disease, sickle cell disease, vascular disease, head or neck trauma). 
Vasculitis is a possible cause for cerebral infarction. Cases of vasculitis or possible 
vasculitis are discussed in Section 8.5.4. 
 
Headache was the most common adverse event PT in the Nervous system disorders 
SOC. It was reported in 28 of 56 (50%) of later onset SMA nusinersen-treated subjects 
                                                     
73 Birnkrant, David J., et al. "Treatment of type I spinal muscular atrophy with noninvasive ventilation and 
gastrostomy feeding." Pediatric neurology 18.5 (1998): 407-410. 
74 Tsze DS, Valente JH. Pediatric Stroke: A Review. Emergency Medicine International. 2011;2011:734506.  
Reference ID: 4027874
(b) 
(6)
(b) 
(6)
(b) 
(6)
(b) (6)
(b) (6)
(b) (6)
(b) (6)

===PAGE 94===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
68 
 
(age range 2-16 years); 19 of these subjects reported headache within 5 days of lumbar 
puncture.75 Because the controlled study CS3B included only infantile-onset SMA 
subjects, there were no adverse events of headache reported in the controlled data.  
 
Reviewer comment: As seen with the reporting of headache AEs, the controlled study 
data do not capture events which rely on AE reporting from the subjects themselves.  
 
Within the limited time frame of the clinical studies, the numbers for many Neurologic 
disorders SOC adverse events were too few to determine whether there was a relationship to 
study drug.  Selected Neurologic disorder SOC AEs are discussed below: 
 
 Lethargy:76 A 7 month old female experienced lethargy in the setting of hyponatremia.  
Reviewer comment: In this reviewer’s opinion, this subject’s hyponatremia with lethargy 
is drug related. For additional details on this and other cases of hyponatremia in 
nusinersen-treated subjects, see Section 8.4.6.  
 Dyslexia:77 One case was reported in an 8-year-old female child with no relevant 
medical history or concomitant medications. The subject received the study drug (12 
mg) on Study Days 1, 29, and 85 via intrathecal injection. On Study Day 150, 65 days 
following the latest dose and 149 days following the first dose of the study drug, the 
subject was diagnosed with dyslexia associated with attention deficit/hyperactivity 
disorder (ADHD). The subject’s ADHD was treated with dexmethylphenidate 
hydrochloride. No treatment was reported for dyslexia. No action was taken with the 
study drug. 
Reviewer comment: The prevalence of dyslexia has been estimated at 5-10%78, and the 
prevalence of ADHD has been estimated at 7%.79 Findings in preclinical studies raise 
concern for neurocognitive changes after nusinersen treatment. However, it is unclear 
whether nusinersen had a role in this subject’s dyslexia and ADHD.  
 
AEs that were likely to be complications of a lumbar puncture or related treatment included: 
 Hyperreflexia:80 Occurred 1 day after having AEs of epidural hemorrhage and spinal 
subarachnoid hemorrhage after failed lumbar puncture attempt. 
                                                     
75 The International Classification of Headache Disorders Post-dural puncture headache (previously used term Post-
lumbar puncture headache) as  headache occurring within five days of a lumbar puncture, caused by cerebrospinal 
fluid (CSF) leakage through the dural puncture (3rd edition. Published in Cephalalgia. 2013 Jul;33(9):629-808) . 
76 CS3A Subject 1776-2305.  Narrative on p. 17 of the information request response submitted to NDA 209531 on 
10/14/2016. 
77 CS2 Subject 1776-4202. Narrative p. 63 of the IR response submitted to NDA 209531 on 10/14/2016. 
78 Siegel LS. “Perspectives on Dyslexia.” Paediatr Child Health. 2006 Nov; 11(9): 581–587. 
79 Thomas R, et al. “Prevalence of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder: A Systematic Review and Meta-
analysis.” Pediatrics 135.4 (2015): e994-e1001. 
80 Study 232SM201 Subject 511-002. Narrative p. 13 of the IR response submitted to NDA 209531 on 10/14/2016.  
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 95===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
69 
 
 Hypotonia:81 Two week old male with presymptomatic SMA had 4 lumbar puncture 
attempts prior to his first nusinersen administration (Study Day 1) and was diagnosed 
with an epidural hematoma. He had hypotonia and reduced weight bearing on legs that 
resolved by Study Day 29.  
 Cerebrospinal fluid leakage 
 Aphonia:82 Occurred after intubation during lumbar puncture and resolved after 2 days.  
 
Neurologic SOC AEs in nusinersen subjects that are common manifestations of SMA included 
AEs coded to PTs Muscle contractions involuntary and Drooling. AEs of Syncope83 and Tremor84 
were also likely related to SMA. A second AE of Syncope85 in a 12 year old subject lasted 5 
minutes and was “due to heat” during band practice. 
 
Discussion 
 
Neurologic toxicity can occur with intrathecal (spinal) drug delivery. Spinal cord or nerve 
root toxicity can manifest as histologic, physiologic, or behavioral/clinical derangements 
after exposure to a spinal drug.86   
 
Evidence of neurotoxicity was reported in nonclinical studies of nusinersen in juvenile 
cynomolgus monkeys.  Some animals showed dose-dependent hippocampal 
vacuolization and/or hippocampal cell necrosis.  
 
Reviewer comment: Study 396443-AS11 was conducted to assess the effect of varying 
tissue preservative techniques on the microscopic appearance of nusinersen-associated 
vacuolization in the hippocampus of cynomolgus monkeys. Monkeys were administered 
nusinersen as six once-weekly 5 mg IT bolus injections (total dose of 30 mg).  Minimal 
vacuolization in the hippocampus was observed in 3 of 6 (50%) of monkeys whose brain 
sections were fixed by immersion in 10% neutral buffered formalin (the standard fixation 
                                                     
81 Study 232SM201 Subject 511-001. Narrative p. 27 of the IR response submitted to NDA 209531 on 10/14/2016 
82 Study CS1 Subject 1776-1004. Summary of Clinical Safety dataset ADAE submitted to NDA 209531 on 9/23/2016.  
83 Occurred in a 4 month old female with symptomatic infantile onset SMA with paradoxical breathing and choking. 
Study CS3A Subject 1776-2305. Narrative p. 17 of the IR response submitted to NDA 209531 on 10/14/2016. 
84 Tremor was present on Study Day 1 and reported to be a manifestation of SMA. Study CS12 Subject 1776-3202. 
Narrative p. 15 of the IR response submitted to NDA 209531 on 10/14/2016. 
85 Study CS12 Subject 1775-4002. AE of Syncope occurred 3 months after his first nusinersen dose. No treatment 
was given, and the subject’s mental status was reported to be normal after the event. Narrative p. 14 of the 
information request response submitted to NDA 209531 on 10/14/2016. 
86 Hodgson, Peter S., et al. "The neurotoxicity of drugs given intrathecally (spinal)." Anesthesia & Analgesia 88.4 
(1999): 797-809. 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 96===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
70 
 
method for the nusinersen toxicology studies). No vacuolization was observed in 
monkeys whose brain sections were fixed by alternative methods.87 
 
The Sponsor cites these study results as evidence that the hippocampal vacuolization is 
linked to the method of tissue preservation.88 However, hippocampal vacuolization In 
Studies 396443-AS03 and 396443-AS06 was dose-dependent and was not observed in 
low dose or control monkeys. This is consistent with the findings being drug-related and 
not solely a result of the tissue preservation method.  
 
Information on preclinical neurologic toxicity was described in informed consent 
documents for Studies CS3A and CS3B.89  
 
We will pursue enhanced pharmacovigilance with detailed reporting of information 
related to potential neurologic toxicity. Assessment of this potential safety issue will be 
complicated by the neurologic and other medical changes that are often seen in spinal 
muscular atrophy patients. Also, it is expected that many patients will require sedation 
and/or anesthesia for intrathecal nusinersen administration. The effects of repeated 
exposure to anesthetic and sedative drugs in children are unclear,90-91 and this exposure 
will likely confound the evaluation of neurologic effects of nusinersen.  
 
Conclusion and Labeling Recommendation 
 
There is preclinical evidence of neurologic toxicity with nusinersen. Neurologic toxicity 
has been reported with intrathecal (spinal) drug delivery.92 There is no clear evidence of 
neurologic toxicity in clinical studies, but the currently available data are limited. The 
clinical development program included 83 and 54 patients exposed to nusinersen for 1 
and 2 years, respectively. If nusinersen is approved for treatment of SMA, use in some 
patients will likely be considerably longer in duration.  
 
Because of the seriousness of a potential neurotoxic effect of nusinersen, this reviewer 
recommends describing the preclinical neurologic toxicity with nusinersen in the 
                                                     
87 Alternative methods  included immersion fixation in Carnoy’s solution, perfusion fixation with modified 
Karnovsky’s solution, and fixation by freezing. P. 26 Study 396443-AS11 study report.  
88 P. 12 Summary of Clinical Safety. 
89 Submitted to NDA 209531 on 10/14/2016.  
90 SmartTots. Consensus Statement of the Use of Anesthetic and Sedative Drugs in Infants 
and Toddlers. October 2015. Accessed 11/12/2016 at: http://www.pedsanesthesia.org/wp-
content/uploads/2015/12/ConsensusStatement.pdf 
91 Wilder RT, Flick RP, Sprung J, et al. Early exposure to anesthesia and learning 
disabilities in a population-based birth cohort. Anesthesiology. 2009;110(4):796-804. 
92 Hodgson, Peter S., et al. "The neurotoxicity of drugs given intrathecally (spinal)." Anesthesia & Analgesia 88.4 
(1999): 797-809. 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 97===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
71 
 
Warnings and Precautions Section of labeling. This issue meets the criteria described in 
the FDA guidance regarding the content of the Warnings and Precautions Section of 
labeling:93 
 
 
8.5.3. Safety Issues Related to Lumbar Puncture 
 
The most frequent adverse events in the 120 hours94-95 following nusinersen dosing are listed in 
the table below. Because infantile SMA subjects are generally unable to report adverse events, 
data from later onset SMA patients provide a more complete account of post-lumbar puncture 
adverse events.  
                                                     
93 Section II. A. 3. Guidance from Industry. Warnings and Precautions, Contraindications, and Boxed Warning 
Sections of Labeling for Human Prescription Drug and Biological Products – Content and Format. Accessed 
11/12/2016 at: http://www.fda.gov/downloads/Drugs/.../Guidances/ucm075096.pdf 
94 In a published report (Haché 2015), which describes lumbar puncture experience in some nusinersen clinical 
studies, the majority of lumbar puncture-associated adverse events were reported within120 hours post-lumbar 
puncture.   
95 The International Classification of Headache Disorders Post-dural puncture headache (previously used term Post-
lumbar puncture headache) as  headache occurring within five days of a lumbar puncture, caused by cerebrospinal 
fluid (CSF) leakage through the dural puncture (3rd edition. Published in Cephalalgia. 2013 Jul;33(9):629-808). 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 98===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
72 
 
 
Table 30. Most Frequent Adverse Events in the 120 hours Following Nusinersen Dosing 
 
Presymptomatic and 
Symptomatic 
Infantile SMA 
(N=117) 
Later Onset SMA 
(N=56) 
All Nusinersen 
subjects (N=173) 
 
 
 
 
Back paina 
1 (<1) 
29 (52) 
30 (17) 
Post lumbar puncture syndrome 
0 
21 (38) 
21 (12) 
Headache 
1 (<1) 
19 (34) 
20 (12) 
Vomiting 
6 (5) 
9  (16) 
15 (9) 
Nauseab 
0 
8 (15) 
8 (5) 
aBack pain includes events coded to Preferred Terms Back pain and  Puncture site pain. 
bNausea includes events coded to Preferred Terms  Nausea and Procedural nausea 
Source: Tables 1 and 2 submitted to NDA 209351 on 10/26/2016 
 
In clinical studies, 5 of 173 (3%) subjects had 6 events that were hemorrhagic complications of 
attempted or successful lumbar puncture.96 These events included the following Preferred 
Terms:  Injection site haemorrhage, Subdural haematoma, Spinal cord haematoma, Extradural 
haematoma, Epidural haemorrhage, and Spinal subarachnoid haemorrhage (one event each). 
All but one of the clinical study patients with hemorrhagic complications of lumbar puncture 
participated in Study SM201 and were 2 months of age or less at the time of study entry. The 
Sponsor reviewed the medical records and determined that no subject required surgical 
removal of a hematoma.  
 
Use of radiologic guidance, sedation, and anesthesia for lumbar puncture in nusinersen clinical 
studies is summarized in the table below. Some patients received anesthesia or sedation for the 
lumbar puncture procedure.  
 
                                                     
96 P. 6 of the information request response submitted to NDA 209531 on 11/7/2016. 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 99===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
73 
 
Table 31. Use of Radiologic Guidance, Sedation, and Anesthesia for Lumbar Puncture in Nusinersen Clinical Studies 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 100===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
74 
 
 
 
Source: P. 4-5 Sponsor submission to NDA 209531 on 10/25/2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 101===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
75 
 
Conclusion and Labeling Recommendation 
 
Because of the risk of thrombocytopenia from nusinersen and the potential coagulation 
abnormalities as seen in some oligonucleotides, patients may be at increased risk for adverse 
reactions after lumbar puncture for intrathecal administration of nusinersen. I recommend 
advising prescribers to perform a complete blood count and coagulation laboratory testing at 
baseline and prior to each maintenance dose of nusinersen.  
 
8.5.4. Rash and Possible Vasculitis 
 
Proinflammatory effects of antisense oligonucleotide drugs have been described in the 
published literature.97  
 
There were 3 cases of possible vasculitis with nusinersen: 
 
 Study CS3B Subject 2010-5026 (AE PT Vasculitis):98 14 month old male developed 
“suspected vasculitis” of the right hand (see figure below) on the day of his sixth 
nusinersen injection (10 months after the first dose). Suspected vasculitis of the left 
hand reported 30 days later. The skin findings resolved after 3 months. No treatment 
was reported and no biopsy was done. No nusinersen was administered after these AEs, 
because it was the end of the study. 
 
                                                     
97 Crooke, ST, ed. Antisense Drug Technology. CRC Press 2007.  
98 Narrative submitted to NDA 209531 on 10/17/2016.  
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 102===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
76 
 
Figure 2. Study CS3B Subject 2010-5026. Suspected Vasculitis Right Hand 
 
 
Source: Appendix A submitted to NDA 209531 on 11/8/2016 
 
 Study CS3A Subject 1776-2306 (AE PT Cerebral infarction):99 This 8 month old 
male (age of symptomatic onset 1 month; age at first nusinersen dose 2 months) 
had a history of acute respiratory failure diagnosed on Study days 
. He 
received a tracheostomy on Study Day 
 and received nighttime BiPAP. On 
Study Day 
 nusinersen doses, 
respectively), he had an episode of right eye deviation with EEG showing left 
hemispheric seizures. He had no prior history of seizures. An MRI showed two 
sub-acute punctate cortical-based areas of restricted diffusion in the right frontal 
lobe, which were new compared to the prior MRI, likely representing acute or 
sub-acute infarcts. 
Reviewer comment: The etiology of this patient’s seizures and cerebral infarction is 
unclear. These events are possibly related to nusinersen. There was no known risk factor 
                                                     
99 Narrative submitted to NDA 209531 on 9/23/2016. 
Reference ID: 4027874
(b) (6)
(b) (6)
(b) (6)

===PAGE 103===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
77 
 
or potential cause for cerebral infarction reported in this patient100 (e.g., cardiac disease, 
sickle cell disease, vascular disease, head or neck trauma). Vasculitis is a possible cause 
for cerebral infarction. 
 
 Study CS3B Subject 2002-5370 (AE PT Rash):101 13 month old male who, 8 and 2 months 
after his first and fifth nusinersen doses, respectively, developed painless lesions on the 
forearm, leg, and foot over 8 weeks. The red macular lesions ulcerated and scabbed 
over within 4 weeks. Microscopic description of a left leg skin biopsy: “several thin-
walled vessels in the superficial dermis demonstrating occlusion with red blood cells and 
amorphous eosinophilic material. There is early necrosis of some of the vessel lumens, 
without leukocytoclasia or significant inflammation.” Post-op diagnosis was Vasculitis vs. 
Vascular occlusion. However, the biopsy report included a comment “There are no 
features of vasculitis.” Laboratory tests for coagulopathy and immune disorders were 
unremarkable. He received one additional SPINRAZA dose after the rash started. The 
lesions resolved without treatment over several months. 
 
Figure 3. Study CS3B Subject 2002-5370. Foot lesion. 
 
Source: Appendix B. 11/8/2016 submission to NDA 209531 
                                                     
100 Tsze DS, Valente JH. Pediatric Stroke: A Review. Emergency Medicine International. 2011;2011:734506.  
101 Narrative submitted to NDA 209531 on 10/17/2016. 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 104===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
78 
 
Figure 4.  Study CS3B Subject 2002-5370. Forearm Lesion.  
 
Source: Appendix B. 11/8/2016 submission to NDA 209531 
 
 
Figure 5. Study CS3B Subject 2002-5370. Leg Lesion (Site of Biopsy) 
 
Source: Appendix B. 11/8/2016 submission to NDA 209531 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 105===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
79 
 
Conclusion and Labeling Recommendation 
 
Cases of distal necrosis have been described in SMA patients not treated with nusinersen. 
However, the lesion descriptions are different from the skin lesions in nusinersen subjects. 
Araujo102  describes 2 cases in which started with bluish discoloration and evolved to red, then 
purple, then black, then to tissue necrosis (see figure below). Rudnik-SchÖneborn103 provides 
similar photographic documentation of 2 other cases but does not provide details of the 
lesions’ evolution. Also, the published cases of distal necrosis are rare (a total of 4), while 2 
cases of possible vasculitis occurred in the 173 nusinersen clinical study subjects. 
 
Figure 6. Digital Necrosis in a Patient with SMA (Not Nusinersen-Treated) 
 
Source: Araujo, Mario, and Kathryn J. Swoboda. The Journal of pediatrics 155.2 (2009): 292-294. 
 
 
Cases of rash and possible vasculitis have been described in nusinersen subjects. I recommend 
describing these cases in the Warnings and Precautions section of labeling. 
 
                                                     
102 Araujo, Mario, and Kathryn J. Swoboda. "Vascular perfusion abnormalities in infants with spinal muscular 
atrophy." The Journal of pediatrics 155.2 (2009): 292-294. 
103 Rudnik‐Schöneborn, Sabine, et al. "Digital necroses and vascular thrombosis in severe spinal muscular atrophy." 
Muscle & nerve 42.1 (2010): 144-147. 
 
Reference ID: 4027874
COPYRIGHT MATERIAL WITHHELD

===PAGE 106===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
80 
 
 
8.6. 
Safety Analyses by Demographic Subgroups 
 
Age 
 
In infants diagnosed with SMA, the number and percentage of subjects who experienced at 
least 1 AE were 22 subjects (81%) in the <90 days of age subgroup and 83 subjects (92%) in the 
≥90 days of age subgroup.104 Overall, the incidence of AEs by SOC was higher in the ≥90 days of 
age subgroup than the <90 days of age subgroup. The overall lower incidence of AEs in the <90 
days of age subgroup is likely influenced by the presence of the presymptomatic subjects, who 
generally do not have AEs related to manifestations of SMA, contributing to this cohort. 
 
In subjects with Later-onset SMA (Pool E), at least 1 AE was experienced by all subjects in each 
age subgroup analyzed (28 subjects < 6 years old and 28 subjects ≥ 6 years old).105 The AE 
incidence was generally similar between the 2 age subgroups. However, LP-related events were 
more commonly reported in the older age group (e.g., post lumbar puncture syndrome 21% in 
the <6 years of age subgroup versus 61% in the ≥6 years of age subgroup). 
 
Sex 
 
Of the 117 infants diagnosed with SMA, 60 were male and 57 were female. AE incidences were 
similar between the subgroups categorized by sex, and the most common SOCs were the same 
(e.g., infections and infestations and respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders).106 
 
Of the 56 subjects in the Later-onset SMA subject group (Pool E), 26 were male and 30 were 
female. There was no difference in AE incidence between the subgroups, and the most 
common SOCs were the same (e.g., infections and infestations and musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders).107 
 
Race 
 
Of the 113 infants with SMA who reported race, 93 were White and 20 were non-White. AE 
incidences between the subgroups were similar, and the most common SOCs were the same 
(e.g., infections and infestations; respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders; and 
gastrointestinal disorders).108 
                                                     
104 Table 96 Summary of Clinical Safety Source Tables 
105 Table 97 Summary of Clinical Safety Source Tables 
106 Table 101 Summary of Clinical Safety Source Tables 
107 Table 102 Summary of Clinical Safety Source Tables 
108 Table 107 Summary of Clinical Safety Source Tables 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 107===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
81 
 
 
In the Later-onset SMA subject group (Pool E; N=56), the non-White subgroup had relatively 
few subjects (n = 7) compared with the White subgroup (n = 49), thereby limiting meaningful 
comparisons between the 2 subgroups. All subjects in both subgroups had at least 1 AE.109  
 
8.7. 
Specific Safety Studies/Clinical Trials 
 
No specific clinical safety studies were performed in the nusinersen development program.  
 
8.8. 
Additional Safety Explorations  
8.8.1. Human Carcinogenicity or Tumor Development 
 
There were 4 subjects with adverse events of benign neoplasms110 reported in nusinersen 
clinical studies. Otherwise, no neoplasms were reported in the NDA submission.  
 
8.8.2. Human Reproduction and Pregnancy 
 
No pregnancies were reported in nusinersen clinical studies. There were 10 female subjects 
who were over age 12 at the time of study entry.  
8.8.3. Pediatrics and Assessment of Effects on Growth 
 
In Study CS3B, nusinersen subjects had reduced growth compared to sham procedure control 
subjects (see figures below). At Study Day 394: mean change from baseline in height/length 
was 13 cm for nusinersen subjects, compared to 21 cm in sham procedure control subjects;111 
mean change from baseline in height/length percentile for age was -26 for nusinersen subjects, 
compared to 26 in sham procedure control subjects;112  mean change from baseline in weight 
was 3.1 kg for nusinersen subjects, compared to 3.9 kg in sham procedure control subjects;113  
                                                     
109 Table 108 Summary of Clinical Safety Source Tables 
110 The following benign neoplasms were reported in nusinersen-treated subjects: 
• 
PT Benign vascular neoplasm: Study CS3A Subject 1834-1301 (7 month old female from the United States)   
had swelling in the right arytenoid, which was biopsied and had a pathological diagnosis of “benign 
submucosal vascular proliferation”. (P. 11 of the 10/25/2016 submission to NDA 209531) 
• 
PT Skin papilloma (Study CS1 Subject 1780-1003) 
• 
Pt Acrochordon (skin tag) (Study CS3A Subject 1835-2308) 
• 
PT Seborrheic keratosis (Study 232SM201 Subject 510-001) 
111 CS3B Study Report p. 344.  
112 CS3B Study Report p. 342. 
113 CS3B Study Report p. 349. 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 108===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
82 
 
and mean change from baseline in weight for age percentile was 0 in nusinersen subjects, 
compared to 27 in sham procedure control subjects.114    
 
Figure 7. Study CS3B. Height/length over Time. Mean Results.  
 
Source: CS3B Study Report p. 363 
ISIS 396443 = nusinersen  
 
                                                     
114 CS3B Study Report p. 354. 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 109===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
83 
 
Figure 8. Study CS3B. Height/length for Age Percentile over Time. Mean Results.  
 
Source: CS3B Study Report p. 362 
ISIS 396443 = nusinersen 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 110===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
84 
 
Figure 9. Study CS3B. Weight over Time. Mean Results.  
 
Source: CS3B Study Report p. 364 
ISIS 396443 = nusinersen 
 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 111===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
85 
 
Figure 10. Study CS3B. Weight for Age Percentile over Time. Mean Results.  
 
Source: CS3B Study Report p. 365 
ISIS 396443 = nusinersen  
 
Reviewer comment: In Study CS3B, nusinersen subjects had reduced growth compared to sham 
procedure control subjects. Clinical studies did not evaluate whether the effect of nusinersen on 
growth is reversible with cessation of treatment. I recommend describing this issue in the 
Warnings and Precautions section of the nusinersen label. 
8.8.4. Overdose, Drug Abuse Potential, Withdrawal, and Rebound 
 
Overdose 
 
There were no adverse events of overdose in the clinical program.  
 
Drug abuse potential 
 
In a consult regarding NDA 209531, the FDA Controlled Substance Staff, in a review dated 
11/30/16, found no issues related to drug abuse potential and provided the following 
conclusions and recommendations: 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 112===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
86 
 
 
Conclusions 
 
1. Nonclinical studies demonstrate that nusinersen does not signal abuse 
potential. Based on its structure as an oligonucleotide and its specificity of 
binding to mRNA to modulate splicing of the SMN2 gene, nusinersen should not 
bind to receptors known to be involved in drug abuse. The IT route of 
administration is unlikely to have a potential for abuse, and nusinersen does not 
cross the Blood Brain Barrier (BBB) when administered IV or SQ. 
 
2. No abuse-related AEs were found in the clinical trials involving children and 
adolescents. 
 
Recommendations 
 
1. The label for Spinraza should not include Section 9 Abuse and Dependence, 
given that there are no data showing that the drug has abuse potential or 
induces physical dependence. 
 
2. Spinraza should not be recommended for scheduling under the Controlled 
Substances Act. 
 
Reviewer comment: This reviewer agrees with the Controlled Substance Staff conclusions. The 
Sponsor’s proposed label does not include a Section 9 (Abuse and Dependence).  
 
 
Withdrawal and Rebound 
 
This reviewer performed a search using the MedDRA Drug Withdrawal SMQ. No drug 
withdrawal or rebound adverse events were found in nusinersen clinical studies.  
8.9. 
Safety in the Postmarket Setting 
8.9.1. Safety Concerns Identified Through Postmarket Experience 
 
Not applicable. There is no previous postmarket experience.  
8.9.2. Expectations on Safety in the Postmarket Setting  
 
Additional information regarding nusinersen known clinical safety issues will be obtained and 
new safety issues likely identified as there are more patients exposed for increasing durations 
of treatment.  
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 113===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
87 
 
 
If it is approved, nusinersen will be administered by a health professional, in a way similar to 
administration in clinical studies. Because its mechanism of action is specific to the treatment of 
SMA, we do not anticipate significant off-label use of nusinersen. 
 
8.10. Additional Safety Issues From Other Disciplines  
The reader is referred to Section 4 of this review.  
 
8.11. Integrated Assessment of Safety 
 
The main safety concerns with nusinersen are thrombocytopenia, coagulation abnormalities, 
renal toxicity, hyponatremia, effect on growth, rash and possible vasculitis, neurologic toxicity 
in animal studies, and hepatic effects.  
 
Six of 56 (11%) nusinersen patients had a platelet level below the lower limit of normal, 
compared to 0 of 28 sham procedure control patients in controlled study CS3B. No patient had 
a platelet count less than 50,000 cells per microliter in that study. Five of 173 (3%) nusinersen 
patients had a hemorrhagic complication of lumbar puncture.  Coagulation abnormalities have 
been observed after administration of some antisense oligonucleotides. Low platelet levels or 
coagulation abnormalities may increase the risk of adverse outcomes after intrathecal 
administration of nusinersen. Monitoring hematologic and coagulation parameters at baseline 
and prior to each maintenance dose may help mitigate this risk. 
 
Proteinuria occurred in 17 of 51 (33%) nusinersen subjects with infantile onset SMA, compared 
to 5/25 (20%) sham control subjects.  Proteinuria occurred in 26 of 52 (69%) of later-onset SMA 
subjects with a longer duration of treatment. Treatment-emergent low serum bicarbonate 
occurred in 32 of 48 (67%) of nusinersen subjects in whom it was measured; measurements 
from a control group were not performed.  Low serum bicarbonate levels are characteristic of 
proximal renal tubular acidosis.   Nusinersen accumulates in the kidney and renal toxicity is a 
class effect of oligonucleotides.  Monitoring for proteinuria and monitoring serum electrolytes 
including bicarbonate at baseline and prior to each maintenance dose may help mitigate a risk 
of an adverse clinical outcome.  
 
Severe hyponatremia occurred in a patient treated with nusinersen.  Monitoring serum 
electrolytes at baseline and before each maintenance dose may help to mitigate this risk.   
Decreased growth (height and weight) was observed in nusinersen subjects compared to sham 
control subjects in Study CS3B.   Clinical studies did not evaluate whether the effect of 
nusinersen on growth is reversible with cessation of treatment. 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 114===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
88 
 
Rash and possible vasculitis were reported in 2 patients treated with nusinersen.  A third 
subject had new onset seizures and cerebral infarction after starting nusinersen, with no known 
risk factor or potential cause for cerebral infarction; the etiology in this case is unknown, but 
vasculitis is a possible cause of cerebral infarction. 
 
Nusinersen, like other phosphorothioate oligonucleotides, accumulates in the liver.  In 
Study CS3B, 2 of 55 (4%) nusinersen subjects had an alanine aminotransferase (ALT) level 
greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal, compared to 0 of 25 control subjects.  
Monitoring hepatic tests, including gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) and bilirubin at 
baseline and before each maintenance dose may help to mitigate the risk of 
hepatotoxicity.  
 
9 
Advisory Committee Meeting and Other External Consultations 
 
Not applicable.  
 
10 
Labeling Recommendations 
10.1. Prescribing Information 
 
This reviewer recommends describing several issues in the Warnings and Precautions section of 
labeling, including thrombocytopenia, coagulation abnormalities, renal toxicity, hyponatremia, 
effect on growth, rash and possible vasculitis, neurologic toxicity, and hepatic effects.   
10.2. Patient Labeling 
 
We will use the label Section 17 (Patient Counseling) to provide information for clinicians to 
communicate to the patients and caregivers, including information about the Warnings, the 
need for laboratory monitoring, and symptoms for which patients should monitor between 
visits (e.g., symptoms of thrombocytopenia). 
10.3. Nonprescription Labeling 
 
Not applicable.  
11 
Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies (REMS) 
11.1. Safety Issue(s) that Warrant Consideration of a REMS 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 115===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
89 
 
Safety issues that warrant consideration of a REMS include:  
 Thrombocytopenia 
 Renal toxicity 
 
11.2. Conditions of Use to Address Safety Issue(s)  
 
Thrombocytopenia 
 
Laboratory monitoring of a complete blood count at baseline and every 4 months (prior to each 
maintenance dose) will be necessary to mitigate the risk of complications related to 
thrombocytopenia from nusinersen. Health care providers who care for SMA patients are highly 
specialized and will educate patients and caregivers on symptoms of thrombocytopenia for 
which patients should monitor.  
 
Renal Toxicity 
 
Measurement of a quantitative urine protein and a general metabolic panel (including 
electrolytes and serum creatinine) at baseline and every 4 months (prior to each maintenance 
dose) will be necessary to mitigate the risk of complications related to renal toxicity from 
nusinersen. Health care providers who care for SMA patients are highly specialized and will 
educate patients and caregivers on symptoms of thrombocytopenia for which patients should 
monitor. 
11.3. Recommendations on REMS  
 
At the time of this review, I do not recommend a REMS for this NDA. Factors influencing this 
decision include:  
 Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is mainly treated in specialty centers with detailed 
knowledge of SMA and its treatment.  
 Patients are scheduled to see a medical professional at least every 4 months for 
administration of nusinersen, which will facilitate risk mitigation.  
 The SMA community is active in educating patients and families regarding SMA 
treatment.  
 
The Division of Neurology Products (DNP) met with the Division of Risk Management (DRISK) on 
10/19/16 and agreed that a REMS would not be recommended at this time. 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 116===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
90 
 
12 
Postmarketing Requirements and Commitments 
 
At the time of this review, we plan no postmarketing requirements or commitments related to 
clinical safety. We plan to have enhanced pharmacovigilance to assess cases of 
thrombocytopenia, coagulation abnormalities, renal toxicity, hyponatremia, effects of 
nusinersen on growth, rash and possible vasculitis, neurologic toxicity, and hepatotoxicity.  
13 
Appendix 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 117===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
91 
 
Appendix 1. Routine laboratory tests measured in the nusinersen development program 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 118===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
92 
 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 119===
Clinical Safety Review 
Evelyn Mentari, M.D., M.S. 
NDA 209531 Spinraza (nusinersen) 
93 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 120===
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is a representation of an electronic record that was signed
electronically and this page is the manifestation of the electronic
signature.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
/s/
----------------------------------------------------
EVELYN K MENTARI
12/14/2016
SALLY U YASUDA
12/14/2016
Reference ID: 4027874

===PAGE 121===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
1 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
CLINICAL EFFICACY REVIEW 
Application Type NDA 
Application Number(s) 209531 
Priority or Standard Priority 
Clinical Submit Date(s) 9/23/2016 
Received Date(s) 9/23/2016 
PDUFA Goal Date 5/23/2017 
Division/Office DNP/OND 
Reviewer Name(s) Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD 
Review Completion Date 12/1/2016 
Established Name Nusinersen 
(Proposed) Trade Name Spinraza 
Applicant Biogen, Inc. 
Formulation(s) Intrathecal injection 
Dosing Regimen 12mg (5mL) loading dose on days 
 followed by 
maintenance dose every 4 months. 
 
Applicant Proposed 
Indication(s)/Population(s) 
Spinal muscular atrophy 
Recommendation on 
Regulatory Action  
Approval 
Recommended 
Indication(s)/Population(s) 
(if applicable) 
Spinal muscular atrophy 
Reference ID: 4026626
(b) (4)
(b) (4)

===PAGE 122===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
2 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table of Contents 
Glossary ......................................................................................................................................... 10 
1 
Executive Summary ............................................................................................................... 12 
 
Product Introduction ...................................................................................................... 12 
1.1.
 
Conclusions on the Substantial Evidence of Effectiveness ............................................ 13 
1.2.
 
Benefit-Risk Assessment ................................................................................................ 14 
1.3.
2 
Therapeutic Context .............................................................................................................. 21 
 
Analysis of Condition ...................................................................................................... 21 
2.1.
 
Analysis of Current Treatment Options ......................................................................... 21 
2.2.
3 
Regulatory Background ......................................................................................................... 22 
 
U.S. Regulatory Actions and Marketing History ............................................................. 22 
3.1.
 
Summary of Presubmission/Submission Regulatory Activity ........................................ 22 
3.2.
 
Foreign Regulatory Actions and Marketing History ....................................................... 23 
3.3.
4 
Significant Issues from Other Review Disciplines Pertinent to Clinical Conclusions on 
Efficacy and Safety................................................................................................................. 23 
 
Office of Scientific Investigations (OSI) .......................................................................... 23 
4.1.
 
Product Quality .............................................................................................................. 23 
4.2.
 
Clinical Microbiology ...................................................................................................... 23 
4.3.
 
Nonclinical Pharmacology/Toxicology ........................................................................... 24 
4.4.
 
Clinical Pharmacology .................................................................................................... 25 
4.5.
 Mechanism of Action .............................................................................................. 25 
4.5.1.
 Pharmacodynamics ................................................................................................. 26 
4.5.2.
 Pharmacokinetics .................................................................................................... 27 
4.5.3.
 
Devices and Companion Diagnostic Issues .................................................................... 27 
4.6.
 
Consumer Study Reviews ............................................................................................... 27 
4.7.
5 
Sources of Clinical Data and Review Strategy ....................................................................... 27 
 
Table of Clinical Studies .................................................................................................. 27 
5.1.
 
Review Strategy .............................................................................................................. 31 
5.2.
6 
Review of Relevant Individual Trials Used to Support Efficacy ............................................. 31 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 123===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
3 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
ISIS 396443-CS3B.  A Phase 3, Randomized, Double-Blind, Sham-Procedure Controlled 
6.1.
Study to Assess the Clinical Efficacy and Safety of ISIS 396443 Administered Intrathecally in 
Patients With Infantile-Onset Spinal Muscular Atrophy .......................................................... 31 
 CS3B Study Design .................................................................................................. 31 
6.1.1.
 CS3B Study Results .................................................................................................. 52 
6.1.2.
 
Uncontrolled Open-label studies ................................................................................... 84 
6.2.
 Study CS3A:  A Study to Assess the Efficacy, Safety, Tolerability, and 
6.2.1.
Pharmacokinetics of Multiple Doses of Nusinersen (ISIS 396443) Delivered Intrathecally 
to Patients with Infantile-Onset Spinal Muscular Atrophy ............................................... 87 
 Study SM201:  An Open-Label Study to Assess the Efficacy, Safety, Tolerability, 
6.2.2.
and Pharmacokinetics of Multiple Doses of ISIS 396443 Delivered Intrathecally to 
Subjects With Genetically Diagnosed and Presymptomatic Spinal Muscular Atrophy .... 94 
 Study CS1:  An Open-label, Escalating Dose Study to Assess the Safety, Tolerability 
6.2.3.
and Dose-range Finding of a Single Intrathecal Dose of ISIS 396443 in Patients with 
Spinal Muscular Atrophy ................................................................................................. 105 
 Study CS10:  An Open-label Study to Assess the Safety and Tolerability of a Single 
6.2.4.
Intrathecal Dose of ISIS 396443 in Patients with Spinal Muscular Atrophy Who Previously 
Participated in ISIS 396443-CS1 ...................................................................................... 112 
 Study CS2:  An Open-label, Dose Escalation Study to Assess the Safety, Tolerability 
6.2.5.
and Dose-range Finding of Multiple Doses of ISIS 396443 Delivered Intrathecally to 
Patients with Spinal Muscular Atrophy .......................................................................... 118 
 Study CS12:  An Open-Label Study to Assess the Safety and Tolerability of ISIS 
6.2.6.
396443 in Patients With Spinal Muscular Atrophy Who Previously Participated in ISIS 
396443-CS2 or ISIS 396443-CS10 .................................................................................... 136 
 
Study CS4:  A Phase 3 sham-procedure controlled study of nusinersen in patients with 
6.3.
later-onset spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) ............................................................................ 140 
7 
Integrated Review of Effectiveness ..................................................................................... 142 
 
Assessment of Efficacy Across Trials ............................................................................ 142 
7.1.
 Primary Endpoints ................................................................................................. 142 
7.1.1.
 Secondary and Other Endpoints ........................................................................... 144 
7.1.2.
 Subpopulations ..................................................................................................... 148 
7.1.3.
 Dose and Dose-Response...................................................................................... 149 
7.1.4.
 Onset, Duration, and Durability of Efficacy Effects .............................................. 151 
7.1.5.
 
Additional Efficacy Considerations ............................................................................... 153 
7.2.
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 124===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
4 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 Considerations on Benefit in the Postmarket Setting .......................................... 153 
7.2.1.
 Other Relevant Benefits ........................................................................................ 153 
7.2.2.
 
Integrated Assessment of Effectiveness ...................................................................... 157 
7.3.
8 
Review of Safety .................................................................................................................. 158 
9 
Advisory Committee Meeting and Other External Consultations ....................................... 158 
10 Labeling Recommendations ................................................................................................ 158 
 
Prescribing Information ............................................................................................ 158 
10.1.
 
Patient Labeling ........................................................................................................ 159 
10.2.
 
Nonprescription Labeling ......................................................................................... 159 
10.3.
11 Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies (REMS) .............................................................. 159 
12 Postmarketing Requirements and Commitments ............................................................... 159 
13 Appendices .......................................................................................................................... 160 
 
References ................................................................................................................ 160 
13.1.
 
Financial Disclosure .................................................................................................. 162 
13.2.
 
CHOP INTEND Scoring Sheet.  Source:  Glanzman et al., 2010 ................................ 163 
13.3.
 
Protocol Amendments .............................................................................................. 166 
13.4.
 
Data tables from study CS3B for the tertiary efficacy endpoint “Change from 
13.5.
baseline in growth parameters (weight for age/length, chest circumference, head to chest 
circumference ratio, and arm circumference).” ..................................................................... 169 
 
World Health Organization (WHO) Motor Milestones ............................................. 171 
13.6.
 
Study CS1, Plasma Biomarker Panel Results, Excerpt from CS1 listing of labs, p. 1443
13.7.
 
172 
 
Endpoint Summary Across Trials .............................................................................. 174 
13.8.
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 125===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
5 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table of Tables 
 
Table 1:  Clinical Studies in Subjects with SMA Contributing Efficacy Data.  Source:  Summary of 
Clinical Efficacy, p. 35 .................................................................................................................... 29 
Table 2:  Classification of Spinal Muscular Atrophy.  Source:  Mercuri et al., 2012 ..................... 33 
Table 3:  ISIS 396443 Dose Volume to be Injected ....................................................................... 36 
Table 4:  Patient Disposition.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 63 ............................................................... 53 
Table 5:  Summary of Major Protocol Deviations - ITT Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 263 ............... 54 
Table 6:  Demography at Screening - ITT Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 67 ...................................... 54 
Table 7:  SMA History - ITT Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 70 ............................................................ 56 
Table 8:  Motor milestones at baseline.  Source: CS3B CSR p. 191 .............................................. 58 
Table 9:  Concomitant Medication Taken by 5% or More of Subjects – Safety Set.  CS3B CSR, p. 
79 .................................................................................................................................................. 59 
Table 10:  Applicant's interim analysis of primary endpoint:  Improvement in motor milestones 
from baseline:  Control 0 % vs. Nusinersen 41%, p<0.0001.  Source: CS3B CSR, p. 89. ............... 63 
Table 11:  Summary of Time to Death - Descriptive Analysis – ITT Set ........................................ 68 
Table 12:  Summary of Percentage of Subjects Requiring Permanent Ventilation – ITT Set.  
Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 108. ............................................................................................................ 69 
Table 13:  CHOP INTEND: Change from Baseline to Day 394 Visit.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 310 ... 72 
Table 14:  Summary of Time to Death - Descriptive Analysis – ITT Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 109
....................................................................................................................................................... 73 
Table 15:  Summary of Percentage of Subjects Requiring Permanent Ventilation – ITT Set.  
Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 108 ............................................................................................................. 74 
Table 16:  CMAP Peroneal Amplitude (mV): Change from Baseline by Visit - Interim Efficacy set
....................................................................................................................................................... 75 
Table 17:  CMAP Ulnar Amplitude (mV): Change from Baseline by Visit - Interim Efficacy set.  
Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 319 ............................................................................................................. 76 
Table 18:  Summary of Time to Death or Permanent Ventilation in the Subgroups of Subjects 
Below the Study Median Disease Duration - Descriptive Analysis, ITT Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 
106. ............................................................................................................................................... 79 
Table 19:  Summary of Time to Death or Permanent Ventilation in the Subgroups of Subjects 
Above the Study Median Disease Duration - Descriptive Analysis, ITT Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 
107. ............................................................................................................................................... 80 
Table 20:  Number of Serious Respiratory Events - Interim Efficacy Set ...................................... 81 
Table 21:  Percentage of Time on Ventilator Support - Interim Efficacy Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 
125 ................................................................................................................................................ 82 
Table 22:  Number of Hospitalizations - Interim Efficacy Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 127 ........... 83 
Table 23:  Proportion of Time of Hospitalization - Interim Efficacy Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 128
....................................................................................................................................................... 83 
Table 24:  Summary of Motor Milestones Total Score at Last Visit, Safety Population (N=20).  
Cohort 1 had 6mg loading dose.  Cohort 2 had 12mg loading dose.  Source:  CS3A CSR, p. 92 .. 88 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 126===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
6 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 25:  Summary of Proportion of Subjects who Achieve Full Head Control, Independent 
Sitting, Rolling, Crawling, Standing, or Walking at Last Visit, Safety Population (N=20).  Cohort 1 
had 6mg loading dose.  Cohort 2 had 12mg loading dose.  Source:  CS3A CSR, p. 263 ............... 89 
Table 26:  Summary of Event-Free Survival, Safety Population (N=20).  Cohort 1 had 6mg loading 
dose.  Cohort 2 had 12mg loading dose.  Source:  CS3A CSR, p. 103 ........................................... 90 
Table 27:  Summary of CHOP INTEND Infant Motor Function Scale Total Score to Day 92, Safety 
Population (N = 20).  Cohort 1 had 6mg loading dose.  Cohort 2 had 12mg loading dose.  Source:  
CS3A CSR, p. 402 ........................................................................................................................... 91 
Table 28:  Summary of CMAP amplitude to Day 92, Safety Population (N = 20).  Cohort 1 had 
6mg loading dose.  Cohort 2 had 12mg loading dose.  Source:  CS3A CSR, p. 468 ...................... 93 
Table 29: Summary of SMA Symptoms in Subjects Observed up to 6 Months of Age (Efficacy Set 
With Opportunity to Attend Day 183) .  Source:  SM201 CSR, p. 83 ............................................ 96 
Table 30:  HINE Total Motor Milestones: Change From Baseline by Visit - Efficacy Set.  Source:  
SM201 CSR, pp. 244-245 ............................................................................................................... 98 
Table 31:  WHO motor milestones by visit - Efficacy Set.  Source:  SM201 CSR, pp.  428-435 .. 100 
Table 32:  Total CHOP INTEND: Change From Baseline by Visit - Efficacy Set.  Source:  Study 
SM201 CSR, p. 143 ...................................................................................................................... 102 
Table 33:  A subset of growth parameters at day 302 of Study SM201.  Source:  SM201 CSR, pp. 
342-353 ....................................................................................................................................... 104 
Table 34:  Hammersmith Test of Motor Function – Expanded Version Data for all Subjects 
Enrolled in ISIS 396443-CS1.  Source:  CS1 CSR, p. 53 ................................................................ 107 
Table 35:  Summary of PedsQL Generic Core Scales - Patient: Total Score Safety Population 
(N=28) ......................................................................................................................................... 108 
Table 36:  Summary of CMAP Amplitude, Safety Population (N=28).  Source:  CS1 CSR, p. 195 110 
Table 37:  Summary of MUNE, Safety Population (N=28).  Source:  CS1 CSR, p. 202 ................ 111 
Table 38:  Hammersmith Test of Motor Function - Expanded Version Data - ISIS 396443-CS1 and 
ISIS 396443-CS10.  Source:  CS10 CSR, p. 45 ............................................................................... 114 
Table 39:  Summary of PedsQL Generic Core Scales Compared to CS1 Baseline; Evaluable 
Population (N=18).  Source:  CS10 CSR, p. 252 ........................................................................... 115 
Table 40:  Summary of PedsQL Generic Core Scales Compared to CS10 Baseline; Evaluable 
Population (N=18).  Source:  CS10 CSR, p. 254 ........................................................................... 116 
Table 41:  PedsQLTM Generic Core Scales and Neuromuscular Module – Parent Assessments.  
Source:  CS10 CSR, p. 47 ............................................................................................................. 117 
Table 42:  CMAP and MUNE Results ........................................................................................... 118 
Table 43:  Hammersmith Test of Motor Function Expanded Version Data for Efficacy Evaluable 
Subjects.  Source:  CS2 CSR, p. 72 ............................................................................................... 120 
Table 44:  Summary of PedsQL™ Generic Core Scales - Patient: Total Score for Efficacy Evaluable 
Population.  Source:  CS2 CSR, p. 76 ........................................................................................... 123 
Table 45:  Summary of PedsQL™ Generic Core Scales - Parent: Total Score for Efficacy Evaluable 
Population.  Source:  CS2 CSR, p. 75 ........................................................................................... 124 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 127===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
7 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 46:  Mean Change and Mean Percent Change of CMAP Amplitude, CMAP Area, SMUP 
Amplitude, and MUNE Results for Efficacy Evaluable Population.  Source:  CS2 CSR, p. 79 ...... 125 
Table 47:  Mean Change and Mean Percent Change of Upper Limb Module Test Results in the 
Non-Ambulant Efficacy Evaluable Subjects.  Source:  CS2 CSR, p. 82 ........................................ 127 
Table 48:  Mean Change and Mean Percent Change of Myometry Results at Each Measured 
Timepoint for 20 Efficacy Evaluable Subjects with Measurements.  Source:  CS2 CSR, p. 84.... 128 
Table 49:  Mean Change and Mean Percent Change of 6-Minute Walk Test Results for Efficacy 
Evaluable Population.  Source:  CS2 CSR, p. 89 .......................................................................... 133 
Table 50:  Mean Change and Mean Percent Change for ACEND at Day 253 – Efficacy Evaluable 
Population.  Source:  CS2 CSR, p. 92 ........................................................................................... 134 
Table 51:  Summary of Expanded Hammersmith Functional Motor Scale Total Score - Evaluable 
Set, Source:  CS12 CSR, pp. 41-49 ............................................................................................... 137 
Table 52:  Summary of 6 Minute Walk Test - Evaluable Set.  Source:  CS12 CSR, p. 277 ........... 138 
Table 53:  Summary of Upper Limb Function Test - Evaluable Set.  Source:  CS12 CSR, p. 51 ... 139 
Table 54:  Number of Doses and Time on Study: Studies in Symptomatic and Presymptomatic 
SMA.  Source:  Summary of Clinical Efficacy, p. 62 ..................................................................... 152 
Table 55:  Study CS3B Protocol Amendments ............................................................................ 166 
Table 56:  Change from Baseline for Growth Parameters at day 394 - Interim Efficacy Set.  
Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 331 ........................................................................................................... 169 
Table 57:  Descriptive Summary of Endpoints and Results Across All Clinical Studies .............. 174 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 128===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
8 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table of Figures 
 
Figure 1:  Overview of ISIS 396443 Clinical Development Program.  Source:  Summary of Clinical 
Efficacy, p. 18 ................................................................................................................................ 28 
Figure 2:  Study CS3B Schedule of Treatment and Efficacy Assessments.  Source: Summary of 
Clinical Efficacy, p. 38. ................................................................................................................... 38 
Figure 3:  Kaplan-Meier survival curves in type 1 SMA infants as a function of type of respiratory 
support.  Patients with Tracheostomy/Invasive Mechanical Ventilation (top, n=42); Non-invasive 
bilevel ventilation and mechanically assisted coughing (middle; n=31); Untreated (bottom, 
n=121).  Source:  Gregoretti et al., 2013 ...................................................................................... 41 
Figure 4:  Hammersmith Infant Neurological Examination Section 2 – Motor Milestones.  
Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 44 ............................................................................................................... 43 
Figure 5:  Schedule of procedures including safety monitoring.  Source:  CS3B CSR pp. 41-42 .. 47 
Figure 6:  Pharmacokinetic sampling schedule.  Source:  CS3B CSR p. 43 .................................... 48 
Figure 7:  HINE motor milestone scores:  Sham-procedure control group evaluated at screening 
and at days 64, 183, 302, and 394.  Median, Mean, and number of subjects (N) are shown in the 
captions for each time point.  Box-and-whisker plot showing quartiles and outliers. ................ 64 
Figure 8:  HINE motor milestone scores:  Nusinersen group evaluated at screening and at days 
64, 183, 302, and 394.  Median, Mean, and number of subjects (N) are shown in the captions 
for each time point.  Box-and-whisker plot showing quartiles and outliers. ............................... 65 
Figure 9:  Kaplan-Meier Curves for Time to Death or Permanent Ventilation (EAC-Adjudicated 
Events) ITT Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 104 ................................................................................... 67 
Figure 10:  Summary of Time to Death or Permanent Ventilation (EAC-Adjudicated Events) - 
Descriptive Analysis, ITT Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 105 ............................................................. 67 
Figure 11:  Kaplan-Meier survival curves based on mortality from all causes in the ITT 
population.  Hazard Ratio=0.5;  p=0.09.  Source:  FDA biostatistician ......................................... 68 
Figure 12:  CHOP INTEND Total Score Over Time: Mean Results - Interim Efficacy Set.  Maximum 
possible score = 64.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 114 ............................................................................ 70 
Figure 13:  CHOP INTEND Total Score Over time: Mean Change from Baseline - Interim Efficacy 
Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 115 ..................................................................................................... 71 
Figure 14:  Peroneal nerve CMAP Amplitude Over Time: Mean Change from Baseline - Interim 
Efficacy Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 120 ........................................................................................ 77 
Figure 15:  Ulnar nerve CMAP Amplitude Over Time: Mean Change from Baseline - Interim 
Efficacy Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 121 ........................................................................................ 78 
Figure 16:  Uncontrolled Open-Label Studies of Nusinersen.  Source:  Summary of Clinical 
Efficacy-iii, pp. 35-37 ..................................................................................................................... 85 
Figure 17:  Summary of CHOP INTEND Infant Motor Function Scale Total Score Over Time, 
Safety Population (N=20).  Cohort 1 had 6mg loading dose.  Cohort 2 had 12mg loading dose.  
Source:  CS3A CSR, p. 110 ............................................................................................................. 92 
Figure 18:  CMAP Over Time: Mean Results, Safety Population (N = 20).  Cohort 1 had 6mg 
loading dose.  Cohort 2 had 12mg loading dose.  Source:  CS3A CSR, p. 114 .............................. 94 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 129===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
9 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Figure 19:  Kaplan-Meier Plot of Age at Death or Ventilation for ≥6 Hours/Day for 1 or More 
Days - ITT Set.  Source:  SM201 CSR, p. 394.................................................................................. 97 
Figure 20:  Long-Term Progression of HFMSE Scores from ISIS 396443-CS1 Baseline to ISIS 
396443-CS10 Day 169 as Presented by their ISIS 396443-CS1 Dose Cohort. Bars represent Mean 
± SD.  Source:  CS10 CSR, p. 44 ................................................................................................... 113 
Figure 21:  Mean (SEM) Change in HFMSE Score.  Source:  CS2 CSR, p. 71 ............................... 122 
Figure 22:  Mean change from baseline (observed values) over time – ITT Set.  Source:  CS4 
Topline Data Summary................................................................................................................ 142 
Figure 23:  Total HINE Motor Milestones Across Three Studies, CS3A, CS3B, and SM201.  Source:  
Summary of Clinical Efficacy, p. 65 ............................................................................................. 144 
Figure 24:  Total CHOP INTEND Score Across Three Studies, CS3A, CS3B, and SM201.  Source:  
Summary of Clinical Efficacy, p. 69 ............................................................................................. 146 
Figure 25:  Kaplan-Meier Curves for Time to Death or Permanent Ventilation - Study CS3B, 
CS3A, and SM201.  Source:  Summary of Clinical Efficacy, p. 81 ................................................ 147 
Figure 26:  Kaplan-Meier Curves for Time to Death – Study CS3B, CS3A, and SM201.  Source:  
Summary of Clinical Efficacy, p. 82 ............................................................................................. 148 
Figure 27:  Difference in Proportion of Responders and 95% Confidence Intervals for Motor 
Milestones Subgroup Analyses - Interim Efficacy Set:  Source:  Summary of Clinical Efficacy, p. 
86 ................................................................................................................................................ 149 
Figure 28:  Hammersmith Functional Motor Scale-Expanded (HFMSE) scores over time from 
study CS12 for individual subjects, showing subject age in the horizontal axis.  Source:  FDA staff 
analysis of study CS12 data ......................................................................................................... 151 
Figure 29:  HFMSE Score Mean Change from Baseline Over Time- SMA Type II: Subjects with 
Later-onset Type II SMA, Longitudinal Analysis of Study CS2/CS12.  Source:  Summary of Clinical 
Efficacy, p. 72 .............................................................................................................................. 154 
Figure 30:  HFMSE Score Mean Change from Baseline Over Time- SMA Type III: Subjects with 
Later-onset Type III SMA, Longitudinal Analysis of Study CS2/CS12.  Source:  Summary of Clinical 
Efficacy, p. 73 .............................................................................................................................. 155 
Figure 31:  Upper Limb Module Mean Change From Baseline Over Time - SMA Type II, 
Longitudinal Analysis of Study CS2/CS12.  Source:  Summary of Clinical Efficacy, p. 75 ........... 156 
Figure 32:  6MWT Mean Change From Baseline Over Time - SMA Type III, Longitudinal Analysis 
of Study CS2/CS12.  Source:  Summary of Clinical Efficacy, p. 77 .............................................. 157 
Figure 33:  WHO Motor Milestones Normal Achievement Time Range .................................... 171 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 130===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
10 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Glossary  
AC 
 
advisory committee 
AE 
 
adverse event 
BLA 
 
biologics license application 
BPCA  
Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act 
BRF 
 
Benefit Risk Framework 
CBER  
Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research 
CDER  
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research 
CDRH  
Center for Devices and Radiological Health 
CDTL  
Cross-Discipline Team Leader 
CFR 
 
Code of Federal Regulations 
CHOP INTEND Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia Infant Test for Neuromuscular Disease 
CMC 
 
chemistry, manufacturing, and controls 
COSTART 
Coding Symbols for Thesaurus of Adverse Reaction Terms 
CRF 
 
case report form 
CRO 
 
contract research organization 
CRT 
 
clinical review template 
CSF 
 
cerebrospinal fluid 
CSR 
 
clinical study report 
CSS 
 
Controlled Substance Staff 
DMC  
data monitoring committee 
ECG 
 
electrocardiogram 
eCTD  
electronic common technical document 
ETASU  
elements to assure safe use 
FDA 
 
Food and Drug Administration 
FDAAA  
Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 
FDASIA 
Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act 
GCP 
 
good clinical practice 
GRMP  
good review management practice 
HFMSE  
Hammersmith Functional Motor Scale - Expanded 
HINE  
Hammersmith Infant Neurological Examination 
ICH 
 
International Conference on Harmonization 
IND 
 
Investigational New Drug 
ISE 
 
integrated summary of effectiveness 
ISS 
 
integrated summary of safety 
IT 
 
intrathecal 
ITT 
 
intent to treat 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 131===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
11 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
MedDRA 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
mITT  
modified intent to treat 
MUNE  
Motor unit number estimation 
NCI-CTCAE 
National Cancer Institute-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Event 
NDA 
 
new drug application 
NME  
new molecular entity 
OCS 
 
Office of Computational Science 
OPQ 
 
Office of Pharmaceutical Quality 
OSE 
 
Office of Surveillance and Epidemiology 
OSI 
 
Office of Scientific Investigation 
PBRER  
Periodic Benefit-Risk Evaluation Report 
PD 
 
pharmacodynamics 
PI 
 
prescribing information 
PK 
 
pharmacokinetics 
PMC 
 
postmarketing commitment 
PMR 
 
postmarketing requirement 
PP 
 
per protocol 
PPI 
 
patient package insert 
PREA  
Pediatric Research Equity Act 
PRO 
 
patient reported outcome 
PSUR  
Periodic Safety Update report 
REMS  
risk evaluation and mitigation strategy 
SAE 
 
serious adverse event 
SAP 
 
statistical analysis plan 
SCE 
 
Summary of Clinical Efficacy 
SGE 
 
special government employee 
SMA 
 
Spinal muscular atrophy  
SOC 
 
standard of care 
TEAE  
treatment emergent adverse event 
ULMT   
Upper Limb Module Test 
6MWT  
6-minute Walk Test 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 132===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
12 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
1 Executive Summary 
 
Product Introduction 
1.1.
Reference ID: 4026626
APPEARS THIS WAY ON ORIGINAL

===PAGE 133===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
13 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Nusinersen (called ISIS 396443 in clinical trials, Spinraza is proposed proprietary name) is an antisense oligonucleotide administered 
intrathecally that binds to pre-mRNA to increase the production of normal SMN protein. 
 
Nusinersen is a new molecular entity (NME) containing no previously approved active ingredient (including any ester or salt of the 
active ingredient). 
 
Note that reviewer commentary throughout the text is presented in italics. 
 
 
Conclusions on the Substantial Evidence of Effectiveness  
1.2.
 
 
The sham-procedure controlled study CS3B is the one adequate and well-controlled 
efficacy study that can support approval of nusinersen for the treatment of infantile-onset SMA patients, with confirmatory evidence 
from 6 open-label studies as well as a report of a statistically significant result (p=0.0000002) assessing motor function in a sham-
procedure controlled study (CS4 in Section 6.3, data not available for review) in later-onset SMA patients. 
 
Study CS3B is a single well-designed multicenter study that has provided reliable and statistically strong (p<0.0001) evidence of an 
important clinical benefit, motor milestone development that is inconsistent with the natural course of this terminal disease, with a 
numerical trend suggesting a beneficial effect on survival.  A confirmatory sham-procedure controlled study in infantile-onset SMA 
infants, who typically die by 2 years of age, would have been difficult to conduct on ethical grounds. 
 
Based on the results of all available studies, the fact that a deficiency of SMN protein causes disease across all SMA types, and 
nusinersen’s demonstrated ability to increase the amount of full-length SMN2 mRNA for translation to SMN protein, it is reasonable 
to extrapolate that nusinersen can provide benefit both to patients with infantile-onset and later-onset SMA.   
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 134===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
14 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
 
Benefit-Risk Assessment 
1.3.
Benefit-Risk Summary and Assessment 
Nusinersen (called ISIS 396443 in clinical trials, Spinraza is the proposed proprietary name) is an antisense oligonucleotide 
administered intrathecally that binds to pre-mRNA to increase the production of normal SMN protein.  Nusinersen is intended to 
treat patients with spinal muscular atrophy (SMA).  Based on the positive results of a single adequate and well-controlled study and 
confirmatory evidence from 6 open-label studies as well as the reported results of an additional sham-procedure controlled study 
(data not available for review) in later-onset SMA patients, it is the conclusion of this reviewer that nusinersen should be approved 
for the treatment of SMA. 
 
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is an autosomal recessive disease with survival motor neuron (SMN) protein deficiency that causes 
motor neuron loss in the brainstem and spinal cord, leading to weakness and muscle atrophy.  Type 1 (infantile-onset) SMA is fatal, 
usually by 2 years of age, due to respiratory failure and infection.  It is the most common genetic cause of infant mortality, with a 
global incidence of 8.5 to 10.3 per 100,000 live births. 
 
There are no FDA-approved treatments for SMA and there is no effective clinical treatment generally.  Current medical care focuses 
on respiratory support, nutritional support, the management of resulting respiratory infections with antibiotics, and the 
management of resulting tendon contractures and scoliosis through bracing, physical therapy, and surgery. Although the lifespan of 
the most severely affected SMA patients can be increased through invasive mechanical ventilation, the quality of such a life is poor 
and most patients eventually succumb to respiratory infection. There is a significant unmet clinical need for effective treatments for 
SMA patients.  
 
A 13-month sham-procedure controlled multicenter study of nusinersen in infantile-onset SMA infants (80 nusinersen, 41 control) 
has provided reliable and statistically strong evidence that nusinersen can help these infants achieve motor milestone development 
that they would otherwise not achieve due to the disease.  This milestone development includes infants attaining the ability to sit 
and even to stand, which type 1 SMA patients normally never can do.  Attaining motor milestone development is clinically 
meaningful because infants become able to perform basic motor skills needed for normal life, such as controlling head movements, 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 135===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
15 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
sitting, rolling over, crawling, and standing. 
 
Although there is some evidence to suggest that nusinersen might have a beneficial effect on survival, the study’s statistical plan for 
interim analysis allowed only a descriptive report of this result.  No conclusion regarding a beneficial effect of nusinersen on the 
long-term survival of infantile-onset SMA patients can be reached from the available data. 
 
Further confirmation of the benefit of nusinersen in treating patients with SMA is provided by the results of six open-label studies 
(four in later-onset SMA, one in presymptomatic infants with genetic diagnosis of SMA, and one in infants with infantile-onset SMA) 
as well as a reported statistically significant result assessing motor function by the Hammersmith Functional Motor Scale - Expanded 
score in a sham-procedure controlled study (data not available for review) in later-onset SMA patients (types 2 and 3).   
Based on the results of all available studies, the fact that a deficiency of SMN protein causes disease across all SMA types, and 
nusinersen’s demonstrated ability to increase the amount of full-length SMN2 mRNA for translation to SMN protein, it is reasonable 
to extrapolate that nusinersen can provide benefit both to patients with infantile-onset and later-onset SMA.   
 
As described in the separate safety review by Dr. Evelyn Mentari, the following common adverse events occurred in the 13-month 
sham-procedure controlled multicenter study of nusinersen in infantile-onset SMA infants:  upper respiratory infection (44%); lower 
respiratory infections (43%); and constipation (30%). QT prolongation of at least 500 msec with at least a 60 msec increase from 
baseline was also observed on the ECG in 4 of 80 (5%) nusinersen subjects in the study. Safety issues that occurred at the proposed 
dose of nusinersen include thrombocytopenia, proteinuria, hyponatremia, decreased growth, and rash and possible vasculitis.   
 
 
Dimension 
Evidence and Uncertainties  
Conclusions and Reasons  
Analysis of 
Condition 
• Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a genetic disease that causes motor 
neuron loss in the brainstem and spinal cord, leading to weakness and 
muscle atrophy.   
• There are different types of SMA (types 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4).  Classification 
• Type 1 (infantile-onset) SMA is 
fatal, usually by 2 years of age, 
due to weakening of the muscles 
needed for breathing and 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 136===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
16 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Dimension 
Evidence and Uncertainties  
Conclusions and Reasons  
into SMA types used to be based only on the age when symptoms 
began and the kinds of movements patients could achieve.  Today we 
also have genetic testing to help classify the different types of SMA. 
• In general, the more copies of the survival motor neuron 2 gene (SMN2) 
that a patient has, the better the prognosis is.   
• Affected infants have impaired motor milestone development.  For 
example, they remain unable to lift the head, sit, stand, or walk. 
Following the initial weakness and impaired motor development, there 
is a long-term decline or a plateau in strength and movement ability. 
• Type 1 (infantile-onset) SMA is the most common genetic cause of infant 
mortality, with a global incidence of 8.5 to 10.3 per 100,000 live births. 
infections that occur when 
babies become too weak to 
cough and clear their lungs.   
• Genetic testing alone can’t always 
tell one exactly which type of 
SMA will develop in all patients. 
• Different patients with the same 
SMN2 gene copy number can 
have different severities of 
symptoms.   
Current 
Treatment 
Options 
• There are no FDA-approved treatments for SMA and there is no effective 
clinical treatment generally.  Current medical care focuses on 
respiratory support, nutritional support, the management of resulting 
respiratory infections with antibiotics, and the management of 
resulting tendon contractures and scoliosis through bracing, physical 
therapy, and surgery.  
Although the lifespan of the most 
severely affected SMA patients can 
be increased through permanent 
mechanical ventilation, the quality 
of such a life is poor and most 
patients eventually succumb to 
respiratory infection. There is a 
significant unmet clinical need for 
effective treatments for SMA 
patients. 
Benefit 
• In the 13-month sham-procedure controlled multicenter study of 
nusinersen in infantile-onset SMA infants (80 nusinersen, 41 control), 
40% of infants who received nusinersen had an improvement in motor 
milestone development, compared to 0% of infants who received the 
sham-procedure (p<0.0001). 
The results of the 13-month sham-
procedure controlled multicenter 
study of nusinersen in infantile-
onset SMA infants provide reliable 
and statistically strong evidence 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 137===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
17 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Dimension 
Evidence and Uncertainties  
Conclusions and Reasons  
• Of the infants who received nusinersen, 18% achieved full head control, 
10% achieved independent sitting, and 1 subject (2%) achieved 
standing. None of the subjects in the control group achieved any of 
these milestones. 
• Although there is no formal statistical comparison, there is some 
evidence to suggest that nusinersen might have a beneficial effect on 
survival.  During the study, 15% of infants in the nusinersen group died 
compared to 32% in the control group. 
• Although there is no formal statistical comparison, neuromuscular 
function as measured by the CHOP INTEND score and motor nerve 
function as measured by the Compound Muscle Action Potential 
(CMAP) amplitude also improved in the infants who received 
nusinersen.  65% of infants who received nusinersen had at least a 4-
point improvement in CHOP INTEND score compared to 4% of infants 
in the control group.  43% of infants who received nusinersen had at 
least a 0.5mV increase in peroneal nerve CMAP amplitude compared to 
0% in the control group.   
• Further confirmation of the benefit of nusinersen in treating patients 
with SMA is provided by the results of six open-label studies (four in 
later-onset SMA, one in presymptomatic infants with genetic diagnosis 
of SMA, and one in infants with infantile-onset SMA) as well as a 
statistically significant result assessing motor function by HFMSE score 
in a sham-procedure controlled study (data not available for review) in 
later-onset SMA patients (types 2 and 3).  The results of these latter 
studies (described in Sections 6.2, 6.3, 7.1.2, and 13.8) do not 
contradict the results of the main sham-procedure control study in 
that nusinersen can help these 
infants achieve motor milestone 
development that they would not 
otherwise achieve due to the 
disease. 
 
Attaining motor milestone 
development is clinically 
meaningful because infants become 
able to perform basic motor skills 
needed for normal life, such as 
controlling head movements, 
sitting, rolling over, crawling, and 
standing. 
 
No conclusion regarding a 
beneficial effect on the long-term 
survival of infantile-onset SMA 
patients can be reached from the 
available data. 
 
Based on the results of all available 
studies, the fact that a deficiency of 
SMN protein causes disease across 
all SMA types, and nusinersen’s 
demonstrated ability to increase 
the amount of full-length SMN2 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 138===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
18 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Dimension 
Evidence and Uncertainties  
Conclusions and Reasons  
infantile-onset SMA described above.   
mRNA for translation to SMN 
protein, it is reasonable to 
extrapolate that nusinersen can 
provide benefit both to patients 
with infantile-onset and later-onset 
SMA.   
Risk 
As described in the separate safety review by Dr. Evelyn Mentari, the 
safety database for nusinersen includes all patients from the Phase 3 
controlled study and the Phase 2 open-label study in patients with 
symptomatic infantile-onset SMA, the Phase 2 open-label study in infants 
with presymptomatic SMA, and open-label studies in subjects with later-
onset SMA 
 
In Study CS3B, the Phase 3 controlled study in symptomatic infantile onset 
SMA patients, common AEs were:  upper respiratory infection (44%); lower 
respiratory infections (43%); and constipation (30%). QT prolongation of at 
least 500 msec with at least a 60 msec increase from baseline was also 
observed on the ECG in 4 of 80 (5%) nusinersen subjects in the study. 
Safety issues that occur at the proposed dose of nusinersen include 
thrombocytopenia, proteinuria, hyponatremia, decreased growth, and 
rash and possible vasculitis.  . 
  
Nusinersen accumulates in the 
kidney in humans and accumulation 
in proximal tubule cells has been 
described in nonclinical studies.  
Coagulation laboratory  
abnormalities, renal accumulation, 
and hepatic accumulation are class 
effects of phosphorothioate 
antisense oligonucleotides.   
 
Monitoring for proteinuria and 
monitoring serum electrolytes 
including bicarbonate at baseline 
and prior to each maintenance 
dose may help mitigate a risk of an 
adverse clinical outcome. 
Laboratory values as markers of 
renal, hepatic, and 
thrombocytopenia adverse events 
would be useful at baseline and 
prior to each maintenance dose. In 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 139===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
19 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Dimension 
Evidence and Uncertainties  
Conclusions and Reasons  
cases of severe hyponatremia, the 
sodium level normalized after salt 
supplementation treatment, which 
continued for 14 months. 
 
Clinical studies did not evaluate 
whether the effect of nusinersen on 
growth is reversible with cessation 
of treatment and a thorough QT 
study was not performed. No 
conclusion may be drawn on 
reversibility for those adverse 
events. Consider the risk of 
concomitant use of drugs that 
prolong the QT interval.   
Risk 
Management 
Strong product labeling with recommendations for monitoring of 
laboratory parameters may help to mitigate the risks of renal, hepatic, and 
thrombocytopenia adverse events.  However, even with adequate 
monitoring, some patients may experience serious adverse events.   
WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS 
should be included in labeling to 
describe the risks of renal and 
hepatic adverse events and 
thrombocytopenia and to provide 
recommendations for monitoring. I 
also recommend informing 
prescribers about hyponatremia, 
decreased growth, rash and 
possible vasculitis, and QT 
prolongation in WARNINGS and 
PRECAUTIONS. 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 140===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
20 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 141===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
21 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
2 Therapeutic Context 
 
Analysis of Condition 
2.1.
 
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is an autosomal recessive disease with survival motor neuron 
(SMN) protein deficiency that causes motor neuron loss in the brainstem and spinal cord, 
leading to weakness and muscle atrophy.  Type 1 (infantile-onset) SMA is fatal, usually by 2 
years of age, due to respiratory failure and infection.  It is the most common genetic cause of 
infant mortality, with a global incidence of 8.5 to 10.3 per 100,000 live births (Arkblad 2009; 
Jedrzejowska 2010; Prior 2010; Sugarman 2012). 
 
There are multiple types of SMA (0-4), as shown in the table “Classification of Spinal Muscular 
Atrophy” in Section 6.1.1.  Classification into SMA types has historically been based on the age 
of symptom onset and the maximal achieved motor abilities (Finkel 2015). In general, the 
severity of symptoms decreases and the age of onset is delayed with increasing survival motor 
neuron 2 gene (SMN2) copy number and correspondingly increasing amounts of SMN protein 
(Arnold, 2015), although different patients with the same SMN2 copy number can have 
different clinical phenotypes.   
 
Affected infants have impaired motor milestone development, e.g., lift the head, sit, stand, or 
walk. Following the initial acute weakness and impaired motor development, there is a chronic 
decline or plateau in functional capabilities (Crawford 2004; Swoboda et al. 2007). 
 
 
Analysis of Current Treatment Options 
2.2.
 
 
There are no FDA-approved treatments for SMA and there is no effective clinical treatment 
generally.  Current medical care focuses on respiratory support, nutritional support, the 
management of resulting respiratory infections with antibiotics, and the management of 
resulting tendon contractures and scoliosis through bracing, physical therapy, and surgery 
(Wang 2007). Although the lifespan of the most severely affected SMA patients can be 
increased through invasive mechanical ventilation (Gregoretti et al., 2013), the quality of such a 
life is poor and most patients eventually succumb to respiratory infection. There is a significant 
unmet clinical need for effective treatments for SMA patients.  
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 142===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
22 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
3 Regulatory Background 
 U.S. Regulatory Actions and Marketing History 
3.1.
 
 
Nusinersen is a new molecular entity (NME) that is not currently marketed in the United States 
or in any other country. 
 
 
 
Summary of Presubmission/Submission Regulatory Activity 
3.2.
 
 
The FDA granted ISIS 396443 Fast Track (11/29/2011), Orphan Drug, Priority review, and Rolling 
submission designations. 
Breakthrough designation was denied on 9/11/2014. 
Rare Pediatric Disease Designation was granted on October 21, 2016. 
 
Type C Meeting: September 15, 2015 
 
The sponsor presented results from a Phase 2, open-label, historical control trial in 20 infants 
with SMA type I as the potential basis for an NDA.  A Phase 3 double-blind, sham-procedure 
controlled trial was also ongoing. 
 
The sponsor asserted that the Phase 2 study results indicated a benefit on survival times and 
clinical assessments relative to natural history. However, confounding factors such as more 
intensive supportive care or differences in patient selection made them very difficult to 
interpret.  
 
Over the subsequent months, the Division had multiple iterative interactions (both written and 
by teleconference) with the sponsor to help develop and refine its interim analysis plan. 
 
The result of the interim analysis of the Phase 3 trial, provided to the Division on July 30, 2016, 
strongly supported the efficacy of nusinersen. 
The Division initiated a teleconference with the sponsor on August 4, 2016, to discuss the 
findings and actively encourage the submission of an NDA. 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 143===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
23 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
During this call, the Division also supported the sponsor’s proposal to submit an intermediate-
sized patient population expanded access protocol for Type I SMA patients (submitted on 
August 17, 2016). 
 
Part 1 of the rolling submission (CMC and nonclinical) was received on August 9, 2016, with the 
complete application submitted on September 23, 2016. 
 
 
Foreign Regulatory Actions and Marketing History 
3.3.
 
Nusinersen has not been marketed previously in any country 
4 Significant Issues from Other Review Disciplines Pertinent to Clinical 
Conclusions on Efficacy and Safety 
 
Office of Scientific Investigations (OSI) 
4.1.
 
Three clinical study sites have been inspected in the United States.  No problems were found. 
 
Product Quality  
4.2.
 
The applicant states that “ISIS 396443 will be provided as a single use, sterile, isotonic solution 
containing no preservatives for intrathecal administration. ISIS 396443 drug product is 
formulated and packaged for single use as a 5.0 mL deliverable volume in a 6 mL vial containing 
2.4mg/mL of ISIS 396443” (Introduction, p. 2). 
 
Analysis and discussion of the acceptability of product quality is deferred to the chemistry, 
manufacturing, and controls (CMC) reviewer. 
 
Clinical Microbiology 
4.3.
 
Not applicable.  Nusinersen is not an antimicrobial or antiviral drug. 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 144===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
24 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
Nonclinical Pharmacology/Toxicology 
4.4.
 
The applicant reports the following results of nonclinical studies, including hippocampal 
vacuolation findings in monkeys without any apparent accompanying neurobehavioral effects.  
The applicant attributes this vacuolation to the method of tissue preservation.  The reader is 
referred to the separate nonclinical review for further details and analysis. 
 
“In the 14-week and 53-week juvenile cynomolgus monkey studies, observed microscopic 
changes were limited to the inferior hippocampal region of the brain, where the primary finding 
was slight to mild focal neuronal vacuolation. The incidence of vacuolation was greatest in the 
14-week study which had the most intensive dosing schedule (a total dose of 45 mg over 14 
weeks compared to 52 mg over 53 weeks for the highest dose groups). Furthermore, the 
highest concentrations were measured in animals dosed at 3 mg per week in the 14-week study 
(169 and 166 μg/g in lumbar spinal cord and cerebral cortex, respectively). Based on a 5-point 
microscopic rating scale, the hippocampal vacuolation findings ranged from slight to mild, and 
in the opinion of the study pathologist, were unlikely to cause any clinical signs or negatively 
influence the animals’ ability to function normally. This interpretation, based on the 
microscopic rating scale, was supported by the lack of effects on neurobehavioral assessments 
in these animals. Supporting information for this conclusion was provided by an investigational 
study conducted in cynomolgus monkeys using 6 weekly IT doses sections from these animals 
were fixed by immersion in 10% neutral buffered formalin (10% NBF, the standard fixation 
method for the toxicology studies) and by alternative methods (immersion fixation in Carnoy’s 
solution, perfusion fixation with modified Karnovsky’s solution, and fixation by freezing). 
Vacuolation was seen in the hippocampal region in brain sections processed using 10% NBF 
while vacuolation was not observed microscopically in the hippocampal sections fixed by the 
alternative methods. Based on this investigational study, vacuoles in the hippocampus do not 
represent an adverse toxicological finding. The observation of vacuoles is linked to the method 
of tissue preservation and the presence of ASO in endosomes or lysosomes... 
Results of the 2 developmental and reproductive toxicity studies using SC dosing were negative 
for drug-related effects on fertility or embryo-fetal development. 
In safety pharmacology studies, no pulmonary or cardiovascular effects were found in rats 
following continuous IT infusion for 25 days, and there were no effects on electrocardiogram 
(ECG) in the repeat-dose IT toxicology studies in monkeys” (Summary of Clinical Safety, p. 13). 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 145===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
25 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
Clinical Pharmacology 
4.5.
 
The key outcomes of the clinical pharmacology discipline review are summarized below. 
The reader is referred to the full review of the Office of Clinical Pharmacology (OCP) for further 
details. 
 
“Clinical pharmacology studies in healthy subjects were not conducted given the intrathecal 
route of administration of nusinersen. Drug-drug interaction studies were not conducted given 
the lack of any significant in vitro findings on nusinersen as an inducer or inhibitor of CYP 
enzymes or transporters. Renal and hepatic impairment studies were not conducted as 
concomitant renal or hepatic disease is not likely to be found in the SMA population.  
 
OCP recommends a fixed-dose of 12 mg/5 mL for all subjects with loading doses at days 
 
 followed by the same maintenance dose every 4 months thereafter. We considered 
the following when recommending fixed dosing versus age based dosing: 
• PK simulations of fixed dosing demonstrate that the mean nusinersen exposures (AUCinf 
and Cmax) will be ~25% higher in 0-3 month age group compared to age-based dosing. 
The mean difference in nusinersen exposures between dosing regimens for other age 
groups (>3 months to 2 years) will be less than 25%. The variability in data suggests 
considerable overlap in nusinersen CSF levels between age-based and fixed dosing. 
• Nusinersen was well-tolerated and there was no evidence for any serious adverse 
events (SAEs) related to exposure. 
• Exposure-response findings from a phase 2 study indicate higher proportion of motor 
milestone responders in the infantile-onset SMA population at the higher end of the 
dose response curve. 
• 
 
 
 
 Mechanism of Action 
4.5.1.
 
Nusinersen in an 18-mer 2’-MOE phosphorothioate antisense oligonucleotide that is 
intrathecally injected. Nusinersen acts as a splice-altering oligonucleotide designed to displace 
heterogeneous ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs) at the intronic splice silencing site-1 (ISS-1), 
present in all SMA patients, downstream of exon 7 on the SMN2 pre-mRNA to promote the 
inclusion of exon 7 in the SMN2 mRNA transcript and enhance the production of full length 
SMN protein (OCP review & Introduction, p.1).  
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
(b) (4)
(b) (4)

===PAGE 146===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
26 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 Pharmacodynamics 
4.5.2.
 
The applicant reports the following pharmacodynamics information for nusinersen. 
The reader is referred to review of the Office of Clinical Pharmacology (OCP) for analysis and 
discussion. 
 
“The PD of ISIS 396443 was characterized by the following, generally consistent with the drug’s 
mechanism of action:   
SMN2 splicing in autopsy CNS tissue samples:  
SMA infants treated with ISIS 396443 have higher levels of SMN2 mRNA containing exon 7 in 
the thoracic spinal cord compared to untreated SMA infants and similar high levels of exon 7 
transcripts in other regions of the spinal cord and brain, consistent with distribution and the 
proposed mechanism of action of the drug.  Autopsy samples showed that SMA infants treated 
with ISIS 396443 had 50 to 69% full-length SMN2 mRNA that included exon 7 from the thoracic 
spinal cord, compared to 15 to 26% from untreated SMA controls 
SMN protein localization in autopsy CNS tissue samples:  
SMN protein was detected in thoracic spinal cord motor neurons from subjects treated with 
ISIS 396443 as well as in neurons and other cell types (such as glial, Purkinje, endothelial) in 
spinal cord tissues and other regions of the CNS. However, quantitative conclusions could not 
be reached due to limitations in the immunohistochemistry methodology used to localize the 
protein. 
SMN protein concentration in CSF:  
Although ISIS 396443 likely increases SMN protein levels at the site of action within the neuron, 
a measurement of the increase in tissue in subjects is not feasible. The closest concentrations 
that can be measured are CSF concentrations, which are highly variable in the infant population 
due to marked changes in SMN protein in utero and early neonatal period. In addition, since no 
data are available from control subjects, the actual change in SMN protein concentrations in 
CSF could not be assessed. In light of these limitations, no relationship was observed between 
CSF concentrations of ISIS 396443 and SMN protein concentrations in the CSF” (Summary of 
Clinical Pharmacology, p. 15) 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 147===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
27 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 Pharmacokinetics 
4.5.3.
 
“Absorption: Nusinersen is administered as an intrathecal injection. 
Distribution: Nusinersen distributes rapidly to the CNS and the plasma. Plasma 
concentrations peak at 1-6 hours and decline rapidly due to extensive tissue distribution. 
Metabolism: Nusinersen is metabolized by exonucleases primarily at the 3’ end of the 
oligonucleotide. N-1 metabolites were found in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), while N-1,2,3 
metabolites were found in the plasma. 
Elimination: The mean terminal half-life in the CSF ranges from 135-177 days. It is 
mainly excreted in the urine as chain-shortened metabolites (N-1,2,3) that are not 
considered active. Urinary excretion of intact nusinersen represented only a small fraction 
of the dose (0.5%) at day 85 following a third dose of the drug” (OCP Review, p. 5). 
 Devices and Companion Diagnostic Issues 
4.6.
 
Not applicable to this application. 
 Consumer Study Reviews 
4.7.
 
Not applicable to this application. 
5 Sources of Clinical Data and Review Strategy 
 Table of Clinical Studies 
5.1.
 
An overview of the clinical studies performed by the applicant is shown in the figure below, 
copied from the applicant.  Note that data from studies CS4 and CS11 were not submitted for 
this NDA, although the applicant did provide a summary of results for CS4 that is described in 
Section 6.3.  Summaries of the studies submitted to support efficacy are in the table of clinical 
studies below.  
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 148===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
28 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Figure 1:  Overview of ISIS 396443 Clinical Development Program.  Source:  Summary of 
Clinical Efficacy, p. 18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 149===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
29 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 1:  Clinical Studies in Subjects with SMA Contributing Efficacy Data.  Source:  Summary 
of Clinical Efficacy, p. 35 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 150===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
30 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 151===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
31 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 Review Strategy 
5.2.
 
An efficacy determination was made by evaluating the interim results from the sham-procedure 
controlled study CS3B in infantile-onset SMA patients.  This reviewer assessed the primary 
endpoint, motor milestone response, by examining the source data provided by the applicant. 
Statistical analysis of the data was performed and reported by a separate statistical reviewer.    
 
The 6 open-label studies submitted (CS1, CS2, CS3A, CS10, CS12, and SM201) were evaluated 
for their potential to provide confirmatory evidence of efficacy. 
 
The results of the sham-procedure controlled study CS4 in later-onset type 2 and 3 SMA 
patients were assessed for their potential to provide additional confirmatory evidence of 
efficacy to support the results of study CS3B.  Although CS4 appears to be a well-controlled 
study based on the summary provided by the applicant, no data for CS4 were available at the 
time of NDA submission so CS4 cannot be reviewed. 
 
Note that this review focuses solely on clinical efficacy.  This application is being reviewed 
separately for safety by Dr. Evelyn Mentari.  
6 Review of Relevant Individual Trials Used to Support Efficacy 
   ISIS 396443-CS3B.  A Phase 3, Randomized, Double-Blind, Sham-Procedure 
6.1.
Controlled Study to Assess the Clinical Efficacy and Safety of ISIS 396443 
Administered Intrathecally in Patients With Infantile-Onset Spinal Muscular 
Atrophy 
 CS3B Study Design 
6.1.1.
Overview and Objective 
Study CS3B is a Phase 3, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, sham-procedure controlled 
study of nusinersen (ISIS 396443) in subjects with symptomatic infantile-onset SMA. 
 
The objectives of the study are described by the applicant as follows. 
 
 “The primary objective of the study is to examine the clinical efficacy of ISIS 396443 
administered intrathecally to patients with infantile-onset SMA. 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 152===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
32 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
The secondary objective of the study is to examine the safety and tolerability of ISIS 396443 
administered intrathecally to patients with infantile-onset SMA. 
 
The tertiary objective of the study is to examine the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma PK of 
ISIS 396443 administered intrathecally to patients with infantile-onset SMA” (CS3B CSR, p. 28). 
 
Trial Design 
• Basic study design:  
 
This was a Phase 3, multicenter, double-blind, randomized, sham-procedure controlled 
study of ISIS 396443 conducted at 31 centers worldwide. Approximately 111 subjects 
were to be enrolled into the study. This study was conducted to test the clinical efficacy, 
safety, tolerability, and PK of multiple doses of ISIS 396443 administered as IT injections 
by lumbar puncture (LP) to subjects with infantile-onset SMA.  The study was stopped 
following an interim analysis of the data. 
 
The total duration of subject participation in the study was approximately 14 months. 
The study consisted of a Screening Period, a Treatment Period, and a Post-treatment 
Follow-up Period. 
 
• Choice of control group:  
A double-blinded placebo-control study is a rigorous and readily interpretable study 
design.  It is ethically acceptable for this indication given the unknown effect of the study 
drug and the lack of any effective treatment that might otherwise have served as an 
active control.  Placebo (sham procedure) group patients continued to receive the 
standard of care for SMA. 
  
• Diagnostic criteria:  
SMA diagnosis was based on genetic documentation of 5q SMA homozygous gene 
deletion, homozygous mutation, or compound heterozygote with an SMN2 copy 
number = 2, and the onset of clinical signs and symptoms consistent with SMA at ≤6 
months (180 days) of age.  Note that SMA was historically diagnosed based on clinical 
phenotype prior to the availability of genetic testing, as described in the following table.  
There may be phenotypic overlap between patients with different SMN2 copy number, 
and patients with the same SMN2 copy number may have more or less severe 
phenotypes.  It is therefore possible that some patients who would historically have been 
classified as type 2 SMA based solely on phenotype could initially be called type 1 given 
current genetic testing capability.  Based on the age of symptom onset and SMN2 copy 
number, the patients in study CS3B are classified as type 1 (severe) SMA.  
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 153===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
33 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
Table 2:  Classification of Spinal Muscular Atrophy.  Source:  Mercuri et al., 2012 
 
 
• Key inclusion/exclusion criteria:  
 
The criteria listed below from the submitted protocol appear adequate to enroll 
infantile-onset SMA patients representative of the U.S. population.    
 
Inclusion Criteria 
To participate in this study, candidates were required to meet the following eligibility criteria at 
Screening: 
1. Signed informed consent of parent(s) or guardian(s). 
2. Genetic documentation of 5q SMA homozygous gene deletion, homozygous mutation, 
or compound heterozygote. 
3. SMN2 copy number = 2. 
4. Onset of clinical signs and symptoms consistent with SMA at ≤6 months (180 days) of 
age. 
5. Males and females ≤7 months (210 days) of age at Screening. 
6. At study entry, receiving adequate nutrition and hydration (with or without 
gastrostomy), in the opinion of the Site Investigator. 
7. Body weight ≥3rd percentile for age using appropriate country-specific guidelines. 
8. Medical care, such as routine immunizations (including influenza vaccine, 
pneumococcus vaccine, and respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis (palivizumab) if 
available), meets and is expected to continue to meet guidelines set out in the 
Consensus Statement for Standard of Care in SMA (Appendix D of the protocol), in the 
opinion of the Site Investigator. 
9. Gestational age of 37 to 42 weeks. 
10. Reside within approximately 9 hours ground-travel distance from a participating study 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 154===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
34 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
center for the duration of the study. Residence >2 hours ground-travel distance from a 
study center must obtain clearance from the Investigator and the study Medical 
Monitor. 
11. Able to complete all study procedures, measurements and visits and parent or 
guardian/subject has adequately supportive psychosocial circumstances, in the opinion 
of the Site Investigator. 
 
Exclusion Criteria 
Subjects meeting any of the following criteria were not eligible for the study: 
1. Hypoxemia (O2 saturation awake <96% or O2 saturation asleep <96%, without 
ventilation support) during screening evaluation. 
2. Signs or symptoms of SMA present at birth or within the first week after birth. 
3. Presence of an untreated or inadequately treated active infection requiring systemic 
antiviral or antimicrobial therapy at any time during the Screening Period of ISIS 
396443-CS3B. 
4. History of brain or spinal cord disease that would interfere with the LP procedures, 
CSF circulation, or safety assessments. 
5. Presence of an implanted shunt for the drainage of CSF or an implanted central 
nervous system catheter. 
6. Clinically significant abnormalities in hematology or clinical chemistry parameters, as 
assessed by the Site Investigator, at screening that would render the subject 
unsuitable for inclusion. 
7. Treatment with an investigational drug given for the treatment of SMA (e.g., oral 
albuterol/ salbutamol, riluzole, carnitine, sodium phenylbutyrate, valproate, 
hydroxyurea, etc.), biological agent, or device within 30 days prior to screening or 
anytime during the study. Any history of gene therapy, prior ASO treatment, or cell 
transplantation. 
8. The subject’s parent(s) or legal guardian(s) is unable to understand the nature, 
scope, and possible consequences of the study, or does not agree to comply with 
the protocol defined schedule of assessments. 
9. Subject’s caregiver is not willing to continue to meet standard of care guidelines for 
care (including vaccinations and respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis if available), 
nutritional, and respiratory support throughout the duration of the study (see 
Appendix D of the protocol). 
10. Ongoing medical condition that according to the Site Investigator would interfere 
with the conduct and assessments of the study. Examples are medical disability 
other than SMA that would interfere with the assessment of safety or would 
compromise the ability of the subject to undergo study procedures.  (CS3B CSR, pp. 
33-34) 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 155===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
35 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
• Dose selection:  
The applicant reports that the dose level selected for this multiple-dose clinical study (12 
mg ISIS 396443) was predicted to achieve levels of approximately 10 μg/g lumbar spinal 
cord tissue and 3 μg/g cervical spinal cord tissue following the first dose based on 
nonclinical studies in juvenile monkeys.  Pharmacology and PK results in SMA transgenic 
mice led to estimates that the target tissue concentration needed to produce 50% to 90% 
SMN2 exon 7 inclusion is between 1 and 10 μg/g in spinal cord tissue.  The loading dose 
interval (i.e., doses on Study Days 1, 15, 29, and 64) was selected based on nonclinical PK 
and pharmacology data to achieve and maintain ISIS 396443 spinal cord tissue levels within 
the upper end of the pharmacologically active range by Day 64 (approximately 30 μg/g 
lumbar and 10 μg/g cervical spinal cord tissue concentrations). The maintenance dose 
interval (once every 4 months on Study Days 183 and 302) was selected based on the 
estimated spinal tissue and CSF drug half-life (4 to 6 months) to maintain spinal cord tissue 
levels of ISIS 396443 at a steady-state level within the estimated pharmacologically active 
range (CS3B CSR, pp. 37-38). 
 
Reviewer Comment:  Doses of 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 mg of nusinersen were studied by the 
applicant in prior open-label studies.  12mg was selected based on the positive preliminary 
efficacy results of those studies, which are discussed in more detail later in Section 6. 
 
• Study treatments:  
 
Subjects randomized to the ISIS 396443 treatment group received a single IT LP injection of 
study drug as a slow bolus (1 to 3 minutes) using a spinal anesthesia needle and 5-mL 
syringe on Study Days 1, 15, 29, 64, 183, and 302.  As shown in the table below, the volume 
of injection was adjusted based on the subject’s age on the day of dosing such that each 
subject received a 12-mg scaled equivalent dose based on CSF volume scaling.  Younger 
subjects were given a lower dose of drug, achieved by injecting a smaller volume that was 
proportional to estimated CSF volume for age, such that dose volume was equivalent to 5 
mL for age 2 years to adult. 
 
As described by the applicant (CS3B CSR, p. 36), the sham procedure chosen for the control 
group consisted of a small superficial needle puncture on the lower back where the LP 
injection was normally made.   The needle broke the skin but no LP injection or needle 
insertion occurred. The needle prick was covered with the same bandage that was used to 
cover the LP injection normally, thus simulating the appearance of an LP injection. The 
study subject was kept in the procedure room for the same amount of time that subjects 
administered study drug were kept, simulating the time period of a study drug 
administration procedure. 
 
Please refer to the Office of Pharmaceutical Quality (OPQ) review for discussion of the 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 156===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
36 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
product formulation used for the active study arm. 
 
 
 
Table 3:  ISIS 396443 Dose Volume to be Injected 
 
 
 
• Assignment to treatment:  
The applicant states that “subjects were considered enrolled in the study after parental 
informed consent was obtained. At the time of consent, a subject was assigned a unique 
screening number before any study procedures were performed. The screening number 
remained constant throughout the study. If the subject was reconsented and rescreened, a 
new screening number was to be assigned. Once assigned, screening numbers were not 
reused.  Subjects were randomized after all screening assessments were completed and 
study eligibility criteria were satisfied. In this double-blind study, an Interactive Voice/Web 
Response System was used to randomize subjects in a 2:1 ratio to receive either ISIS 396443 
or a sham procedure, respectively. Randomization was stratified based on disease duration 
(i.e., subject’s age at screening minus age at symptom onset) of ≤12 weeks versus >12 
weeks, with a randomization block size of 3. The randomization was performed globally, 
except that a separate randomization list was used in Japan. No separate randomization list 
was used for individual study sites. Subjects were not to begin treatment prior to 
randomization and assignment of a unique randomization number.  If a subject did not 
successfully receive the first dose of ISIS 396443 or sham procedure, they were to be 
replaced” (CS3B CSR, p. 37). 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 157===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
37 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
• Blinding:  
The applicant reports the following methods of blinding, in addition to those described in the 
sham procedure description above.  These methods appear adequate.  The primary endpoint 
of motor milestone achievement could potentially be influenced by unblinding in that an 
unblinded investigator might be biased toward reporting a higher milestone rating, 
especially in cases where a patient appeared borderline between two milestone categories. 
  
“The Sponsor, parents of the subjects, and key study site personnel were blinded 
throughout the study. The evaluator (i.e., physical therapist) who performed efficacy 
evaluations was blinded to study treatment and was not involved in decisions about the 
subjects’ ventilation. Clinicians who were making decisions regarding subjects’ ventilation 
were blinded throughout the study, and did not have access to study treatment 
assignments or efficacy evaluation results. Study personnel involved in processing and 
analyzing study samples (e.g., blood, urine) were blinded to treatment assignment. To 
protect against unblinding when analyzing blood and CSF samples for drug concentrations 
and anti-ISIS 396443 antibodies, dummy identification numbers were assigned by vendors. 
There were both blinded and unblinded monitors in the study.  Data collected during 
administration of ISIS 396443 and performance of the sham procedure were documented in 
an unblinded source packet that was kept separate and secured from all other source 
documents and was accessible only to unblinded study staff. Unblinded monitors verified all 
information in the unblinded source packets and transmitted a copy of the packet to 
unblinded personnel at Bioclinica. Only the unblinded personnel assigned to the study had 
access to the information. The unblinded personnel entered the data into unblinded 
electronic CRFs within the Electronic Data Capture (EDC) system for the study. No site staff 
had access to the unblinded electronic CRFs. The unblinded monitor verified all unblinded 
data entered into the ECD against the source packet filed on site. Unblinded datasets were 
only exported from the EDC and transferred to unblinded personnel by unblinded personnel 
at Bioclinica. Ionis Pharmaceuticals Data Management had to request the 
transfer and confirm that the receiver was unblinded before delivery occurred. All physical 
and electronic copies of unblinded data were protected. Electronic files were either 
password protected or located in a secure area with limited access and, if transferred 
between parties, was done in a secure manner such as by secure File Transfer Protocol or 
using some other method approved by each party’s information technology department” 
(CS3B CSR, p. 38). 
 
• Dose modification, dose discontinuation 
“No adjustment of dose was to be permitted. If a concurrent illness prevented the dosing 
procedure from being performed safely, an adjustment in the dose schedule could have 
been permitted, but must have been approved by the Medical Monitor in advance. In 
general, each scheduled dose could have been delayed by up to 8 weeks” (CS3B CSR, p. 38). 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 158===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
38 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
This modification plan is acceptable.  A dose delay beyond the drug half-life of 4-6 months 
could allow drug concentrations in the spinal cord tissue to drop below predicted therapeutic 
levels and might diminish efficacy. 
 
• Administrative structure:  
Investigators at 36 study centers worldwide received IRB/IEC approval to participate in this 
study, and 31 centers enrolled and treated subjects.  Safety data were reviewed on an 
ongoing basis by the Sponsor’s Medical Monitor and by an independent Data and Safety 
Monitoring Board (DSMB).  The primary efficacy endpoint events of death or permanent 
ventilation were reviewed in a blinded fashion by the Endpoint Adjudication Committee 
(EAC).  The Sponsor, in collaboration with 
, identified the 
potential efficacy events and prepared case packets for adjudication. (CS3B CSR, p. 20) 
 
• Procedures and schedule:  
The following table from the applicant summarizes the schedule of study visits, screening 
periods, treatment periods, treatment withdrawal periods, and follow-up periods. 
 
Figure 2:  Study CS3B Schedule of Treatment and Efficacy Assessments.  Source: Summary of 
Clinical Efficacy, p. 38. 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
(b) (4)

===PAGE 159===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
39 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
• Dietary restrictions/instructions:  
As described in the inclusion criteria, study patients were required to be receiving adequate 
nutrition and hydration (with or without gastrostomy) at study entry with a body weight 
greater than or equal to the 3rd percentile for age using appropriate country-specific 
guidelines.  Patients were excluded from the study if their caregivers were not willing to 
continue to meet standard of care guidelines for nutritional support.  Recommended 
appropriate nutritional support included orally or via a feeding tube, hydration 
management, and medical or surgical gastroesophageal reflux disease management. 
 
The dietary restrictions/instructions described above applied to both the treatment and 
sham-procedure arms of the study and seem reasonable. 
 
• Concurrent medications:  
Throughout the study, investigators or designated licensed physicians involved in the study 
were permitted to prescribe concomitant medications or treatments deemed necessary for 
AEs or to provide adequate supportive care (CS3B CSR, p. 39).  Study subjects were 
prohibited from receiving other experimental agents during the study.  This included 
marketed agents at experimental doses that were being tested for the treatment of SMA 
(e.g., valproate, riluzole, creatine, sodium phenylbutyrate, hydroxyurea, and salbutamol). 
 
• Treatment compliance:  
Treatment compliance was determined by having dedicated study personnel administer 
each dose of ISIS 396443 or perform each sham procedure in a dedicated room to ensure 
blinding.  The time, date, and volume of each study treatment was recorded on the CRF. 
 
• Rescue medication:  
 
There were no applicable rescue medications for this trial.   
 
• Subject completion, discontinuation, or withdrawal:  
 
Subjects who terminated early from the study were encouraged to complete 
assessments per the Day 394 Visit.  Subjects who were randomized but did not 
successfully receive the first dose of ISIS 396443 or undergo the first sham procedure 
were replaced. 
 
After completion of the Day 303 Visit, subjects entered the 3-month Post-treatment 
Follow-up Period. This period consisted of a study center visit on Study Day 394 and 
follow-up phone assessments on a weekly basis. If a subject had reached ≥16 hours/day 
of ventilation within the last 3 weeks prior to their Day 394 Visit, they were followed by 
phone contact until the primary endpoint was confirmed. 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 160===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
40 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
As a result of the decision by the study Sponsor to terminate the study earlier based on 
the assessment of risk-benefit of ISIS 396443, all subjects were invited to complete the 
End of Double Blind Period (EODBP) Visit, during which all Day 394 assessments were 
conducted.  The EODBP visit occurred no less than 2 weeks from the most recently 
administered dosing or sham procedure. After completing the EODBP Visit, subjects 
enrolled in the study at that time were considered study completers.   
 
Following treatment and the Day 394 follow-up evaluation, eligible subjects could elect 
to enroll in an open-label extension study without unblinding to the subject’s treatment 
group.  (CS3B CSR, p. 30-31) 
 
Study treatment was to be permanently discontinued for any of the following reasons: 
• The subject’s parent/guardian withdrew consent. 
• The subject experienced an AE that necessitated permanent 
discontinuation of study treatment. 
• In the event of treatment discontinuation, the reason for discontinuation 
of study treatment was to be recorded in the Case Report Form (CRF) and 
source documentation.  Subjects who discontinued treatment were to 
enter the Post-treatment Follow-up Period unless consent was 
withdrawn. 
 
Subjects were to be withdrawn from the study for any of the following reasons: 
• Withdrawal of consent. 
• The subject or the subject’s parents/guardians were unwilling or unable 
to comply with the protocol. 
• The subject experienced a medical emergency that necessitated 
unblinding of the subject’s treatment assignment. 
• At the discretion of the Investigator for medical reasons. 
• At the discretion of the Investigator or Sponsor for noncompliance. 
• Significant protocol deviation. 
• Decision by the Investigator or Sponsor. 
All information, including the reason for withdrawal from the study, was to 
be recorded in the CRF (CS3B CSR, pp. 34-35). 
 
Reviewer Comment:  The above criteria for completion, discontinuation, or 
withdrawal appear reasonable.  “Decision by the investigator or Sponsor” is 
vague, but details of the reason for withdrawal would be included in the CRF. 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 161===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
41 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
 
 
 
Study Endpoints  
Primary Efficacy Endpoints 
Primary efficacy endpoints of the study are as follows: 
• Proportion of motor milestone responders (Section 2 of the Hammersmith Infant 
Neurological Examination [HINE]) 
• Time to death or permanent ventilation (≥16 hours ventilation/day continuously for 
>21 days in the absence of an acute reversible event OR tracheostomy). 
Reviewer Comment:  Only the first primary efficacy endpoint, proportion of motor milestone 
responders, was tested statistically for the interim analysis of study CS3B, as described in the 
statistical analysis plan below.  All other endpoints were descriptively reported.  Survival as an 
endpoint is less interpretable because it can be strongly affected by the type and quality of 
respiratory support provided to SMA infants, as shown in the figure below comparing survival 
with no respiratory support, non-invasive ventilation, and invasive ventilation/tracheostomy 
(Gregoretti et al., 2013). 
Figure 3:  Kaplan-Meier survival curves in type 1 SMA infants as a function of type of 
respiratory support.  Patients with Tracheostomy/Invasive Mechanical Ventilation (top, 
n=42); Non-invasive bilevel ventilation and mechanically assisted coughing (middle; n=31); 
Untreated (bottom, n=121).  Source:  Gregoretti et al., 2013 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
COPYRIGHT MATERIAL WITHHELD

===PAGE 162===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
42 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
In the September 15 meeting with the applicant, the Agency responded that it appeared 
reasonable, based on the effect size suggested by the phase 2 study CS3A, to revise the phase 3 
study (ISIS 396443-CS3B) to include an interim analysis based on function, not survival.  Motor 
milestone development was chosen as the functional endpoint based on the known clinical 
course of type 1 SMA, in which there is progressive loss of motor milestones through the course 
of the disease.  Patients with type 1 SMA never sit, stand, or walk.  As discussed later in Section 
6.2.1, there had also been a positive signal suggesting motor milestone improvement in the 
phase 2 open-label study, CS3A.   
The HINE (scoring sheet shown in the figure below) evaluates the neuromuscular development 
of infants in 8 motor milestone categories (head control, sitting, grasping, ability to kick in 
supine position, rolling, crawling, standing and walking) with 3 to 5 progressively more difficult 
items for each milestone category, as shown in the figure below.  Scoring proceeds from left to 
right, with 0 meaning inability to perform a task and 3 or 4 (depending on the task) meaning full 
milestone development.  The HINE has been assessed in a retrospective multicentric study of 
33 type I SMA infants (De Sanctis et al., 2016).  The authors reported that “all [type 1 SMA] 
patients studied had a score of 0 out of a scale of 4 on items assessing sitting, rolling, crawling, 
standing or walking.  A score of more than 0 was only achieved in three items: head control 
(n = 13), kicking (n = 15) and hand grasp (n = 18). In these items, the maximal score achieved 
was 1 out of a scale of 4, indicating only partial achievement of the milestone.”   
For study CS3B, motor milestone assessments were performed at Screening, Day 64 pre-dose, 
Day 183 pre-dose, Day 302 pre-dose, and Day 394.  
 
A motor milestone responder was defined by the applicant as follows. 
“The definition of a motor milestones responder is based on the motor milestones categories in 
Section 2 of the Hammersmith Infant Neurological Exam with the exclusion of voluntary grasp 
using assessment at the later of the Day 183, Day 302, or Day 394 study visits as follows: 
(i) subject demonstrates at least a 2-point increase in the motor milestones category of 
ability to kick or achievement of maximal score on that category (touching toes), or a 1- 
point increase in the motor milestones category of head control, rolling, sitting, 
crawling, standing, or walking, AND 
(ii) among the motor milestone categories with the exclusion of voluntary grasp, there 
are more categories where there is improvement as defined in (i) than worsening. Note: 
for the category of ability to kick, similar to the definition of improvement in (i) above, 
worsening is defined as at least a 2-point decrease or decrease to the lowest possible 
score of no kicking. For the other 6 categories, worsening is defined as at least 1-point 
decrease” (CS3B documentation of statistical methods, pp. 21-22).  “Voluntary grasp, a 
category in which none of the milestones require movement against gravity, was 
excluded from the analysis as some infants with SMA can acquire all milestones in this 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 163===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
43 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
category” (CS3B CSR, p. 86). 
 
Reviewer Comment:  Based on the above descriptions of the HINE and the progressive loss of 
motor milestones in type 1 SMA patients, the choice of motor milestone development as 
measured by the HINE is an acceptable primary endpoint for the interim analysis of study CS3B.   
 
In order to assess the second primary endpoint of time to death or permanent ventilation, a 
subject’s ventilator or BiPAP use (number of hours/day) was recorded daily by the 
caregivers using a daily ventilator use diary for the duration of the study. This information was 
obtained during study visits and weekly telephone contacts (CS3B CSR, p. 43). 
 
Figure 4:  Hammersmith Infant Neurological Examination Section 2 – Motor Milestones.  
Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 44 
 
            Scoring:         0                               1                            2                          3                        4 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 164===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
44 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
 
Secondary Efficacy Endpoints 
Secondary efficacy endpoints of the study are as follows: 
• Proportion of Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia Infant Test for Neuromuscular 
Disease (CHOP INTEND) responders. 
• Survival rate. 
• Percent of subjects not requiring permanent ventilation. 
• Proportion of compound muscle action potential (CMAP) responders. 
• Time to death or permanent ventilation in the subgroups of subjects below the 
study median disease duration. 
• Time to death or permanent ventilation in the subgroups of subjects above the 
study median disease duration. 
 
CHOP INTEND 
The applicant reports that “Evaluations using the CHOP INTEND motor function scale 
were performed by physical therapists at the study centers. These evaluations were 
scheduled at Screening (2 assessments, baseline assessment), Day 64 predose, Day 183 
predose, Day 302 predose, and Day 394. The CHOP INTEND is a validated 16-item, 64-
point motor assessment designed specifically to evaluate the motor skills of infants with 
symptomatic SMA and to accommodate their fragile nature and observed tolerance to 
item administration [Glanzman 2010]. The test was designed by an expert panel that 
was guided in item selection by the statistical characteristics of each item as well as by 
clinical judgment concerning the item’s ability to quantify motor behavior in Type I SMA. 
The test captures neck, trunk, proximal, and distal limb strength in 14 elicited and 2 
observational items and has been established as a safe, reliable, and clinically 
meaningful measure of motor function in infants with SMA” (CS3B CSR p. 44). 
 
Reviewer Comment:  The CHOP INTEND appears to be an acceptable neuromuscular 
evaluation for use as a secondary endpoint.  See the CHOP INTEND scoring sheet in 
Appendix 13.3. 
 
 
CMAP 
The applicant states that compound muscle action potential (CMAP) “measurements of 
ulnar nerve function in the abductor digiti minimus muscle and peroneal nerve function 
in the anterior tibialis muscle were performed or supervised by a clinical 
electromyographer at the study center. Measurements were made at Screening 
(baseline assessment), Day 64 predose, Day 183 predose, Day 302 predose, and Day 
394...  CMAP is a well validated method for tracking disease progression in 
neuromuscular disorders such as SMA [Lewelt 2010; Swoboda 2005] and amyotrophic 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 165===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
45 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
lateral sclerosis [Shefner 2011] and has been proposed as a potential biomarker of a 
therapeutic effect in SMA” (CS3B CSR pp. 44-45). 
 
Reviewer Comment:  Review of the medical literature supports the use of CMAP to 
monitor disease progression in type 1 SMA patients.   Swoboda et al. 2005 reported a 
rapid and sustained age-dependent decline in the CMAP amplitudes of SMA1 and SMA2 
patients. CMAP may be more difficult to interpret in type 2 SMA because Kang et al. 
(2014) found a stabilization of CMAP with spontaneous increase in motor unit number 
estimation (MUNE) in SMA2 patients, appearing to contradict the finding of Swoboda et 
al. 2005 for type 2 SMA patients. 
 
Tertiary Efficacy Endpoints 
The tertiary efficacy endpoints are as follows: 
• Change from baseline in growth parameters (weight for age/length, chest 
circumference, head to chest circumference ratio, and arm circumference). 
• Number of serious respiratory events. 
• Number of hours of ventilation support. 
• Number and length of hospitalizations. 
Growth Parameters 
Growth parameters were assessed by trained site staff at the study centers. The 
assessments were performed at Screening, Day 29 pre-dose, Day 64 pre-dose, Day 183 
pre-dose, Day 302 pre-dose, and Day 394. Body length, head circumference, chest 
circumference, and arm circumference were measured. Ratios of weight-for-age, 
weight-for-length, and head-to-chest circumference were also calculated. 
 
Reviewer Comment:  The Secondary and Tertiary efficacy endpoints are acceptable.  
Their results are reported descriptively in Section 6.1.2. 
 
Safety Endpoints 
Safety endpoints are as follows: 
• AEs, including SAEs 
• Vital signs and weight 
• Neurological examinations 
• Physical examinations 
• Clinical laboratory tests (serum chemistry, hematology, and urinalysis) 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 166===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
46 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
• Electrocardiograms 
• Use of concomitant medications 
 
Safety evaluations include the following parameters: 
• Assessment of AEs and SAEs 
• Vital signs: resting blood pressure, pulse, respiratory rate, temperature, and 
pulse oximetry awake. 
• Neurological examinations: assessment of mental status, level of consciousness, 
• sensory function, motor function, cranial nerve function, and reflexes. 
• Physical examinations and weight 
 
Clinical laboratory tests included (CS3B CSR, pp. 45-46): 
• Serum chemistry: sodium, potassium, chloride, total protein, albumin, calcium, 
phosphorus, glucose, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, cystatin C, total serum 
bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine 
aminotransferase (ALT), and creatinine phosphokinase 
• Hematology: red blood cells (RBCs), hemoglobin, hematocrit, platelets, white 
blood cells (WBCs), and WBC differential (% and absolute neutrophils, 
lymphocytes, eosinophils, basophils, and monocytes) 
• Coagulation: aPTT, PT, and INR 
• Urinalysis: specific gravity, pH, protein, glucose, ketones, bilirubin, blood, RBCs, 
WBCs, epithelial cell, bacteria, casts, and crystals 
• Immunogenicity evaluation: ISIS 396443 plasma antibodies 
• Electrocardiograms (ECGs) 
• Assessment of concomitant medications and concomitant procedures 
 
Reviewer Comment:  See the separate clinical safety review for discussion of the adequacy of 
the safety endpoints. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 167===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
47 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Figure 5:  Schedule of procedures including safety monitoring.  Source:  CS3B CSR pp. 41-42 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 168===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
48 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Pharmacokinetic Endpoints 
The PK endpoints are as follows: 
• CSF levels of ISIS 396443 
• Plasma levels of ISIS 396443 
Figure 6:  Pharmacokinetic sampling schedule.  Source:  CS3B CSR p. 43 
 
 
Immunogenicity Endpoint 
• The immunogenicity endpoint is the incidence and titer of plasma antibodies to 
nusinersen. (CS3B CSR, pp. 28-29; Statistical methods, p. 13). 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 169===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
49 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Statistical Analysis Plan 
 
Reviewer Comment:  Please refer to the statistical review for detailed evaluation of the 
applicant’s planned statistical analysis.  The null hypothesis for the primary endpoint is that 
there is no difference in the proportion of responders between nusinersen and the sham-
procedure groups.  Only the interim analysis was conducted because the study was 
subsequently stopped due to the positive results of the interim analysis.  Note that the statistical 
plan for the interim analysis was made in consultation with the Agency.  For the interim analysis 
there was no adjustment for multiplicity because only the primary endpoint was analyzed 
statistically.  All other endpoints were reported descriptively. 
 
An interim efficacy analysis took place with a targeted clinical cut-off date of June 15, 2016.  
The study was then terminated on the grounds that conducting a sham-controlled study was no 
longer deemed ethical or feasible given the positive results of the interim analysis.  At the 
interim analysis, the first primary efficacy endpoint, proportion of motor milestones 
responders, was tested at an alpha of 0.035 using Logistic regression (Fisher’s exact test in the 
situation of less than 5 responders in either group) of the ITT/(Interim) Efficacy population.  If 
the first primary endpoint of motor milestones was statistically significant at the interim 
analysis, then the second primary endpoint and all secondary endpoints were to be 
descriptively reported. No formal statistical comparison would be performed and no p-values 
would be calculated for statistical inference for those endpoints. 
 
The applicant had the following statistical analysis plan in the event that the primary efficacy 
endpoint, proportion of motor milestone responders, was not significant at the interim analysis. 
 
“In this case, at the final analysis, the primary efficacy endpoint, proportion of motor 
milestones responders will be tested at an alpha of 0.03. If the proportion of motor milestones 
responders is not significant at the final analysis, then the testing of the secondary primary, 
time to death or permanent ventilation, and all secondary endpoints will be considered 
exploratory. If the proportion of subjects who achieve improvement in motor milestones is 
significant at the final analysis, then the second primary endpoint and all secondary endpoints 
will be tested using the following strategy: 
• The second primary efficacy endpoint, time to death or permanent ventilation, will be 
tested at an alpha of 0.05. If it is significant, proceed to the next step; otherwise all 
subsequent tests are considered exploratory. 
The proportion of CHOP INTEND responders will be tested at an alpha of 0.05. If it 
is significant, proceed to the next step; otherwise all subsequent tests are considered 
exploratory. 
• Test time to death at an alpha of 0.05. If it is significant, proceed to the next step; 
otherwise all subsequent tests are considered exploratory. 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 170===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
50 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
• Test percentage of subjects not requiring permanent ventilation at an alpha of 0.05. If 
it is significant, proceed to the next step; otherwise all subsequent tests are considered 
exploratory. 
• Test proportion of CMAP responders at an alpha of 0.05. 
• Test time to death or permanent ventilation in subgroup of subjects with disease 
duration at Screening below or at study median at an alpha of 0.05. If it is significant, 
proceed to the next step; otherwise all subsequent tests are considered exploratory. 
• Test time to death or permanent ventilation in subgroup of subjects with disease 
duration at Screening above study median at an alpha of 0.05. If it is significant, 
proceed to the next step; otherwise the subsequent test is considered exploratory. 
 
Subjects who die or withdraw from the study will be counted as non-responders and 
will be included in the denominator for the calculation of the proportion. As a result, 
mortality will be accounted for in the motor milestone analysis” (Statistical Methods, 
pp. 21, 44). 
 
Populations for the analyses 
“The Intent-to-treat (ITT) Set, (Interim) Efficacy Set, and the Per-protocol Set (PPS) will 
be used for efficacy analyses. The ITT Set is defined as all subjects who are randomized 
and receive at least one dose of study drug/sham procedure. Subjects will be analyzed 
in the treatment group to which they were randomized. This will be the primary 
population for the analysis of time-to event (e.g., time to death or permanent 
ventilation) endpoints. 
 
For the interim analysis of functional endpoints such as motor milestones, the Interim 
Efficacy Set will be used. The Interim Efficacy Set is defined as the subset of subjects in 
the ITT Set who have the opportunity to be assessed at the Day 183 visit. Specifically, 
the Interim Efficacy Set will include all subjects with Day 183, Day 302, or Day 394 visit 
and all subjects with time difference of at least 190 days (183 plus 7 day window) 
between date of first dose and the targeted clinical cut-off date of June 15, 2016 for the 
interim analysis (i.e., dosed on or before December 09, 2015). However, a subject who 
has died or withdrawn will be included provided that there is a time difference of at 
least 176 days (183 minus 7 day window) between the date of first dose and the 
targeted clinical cut-off date of June 15, 2016 for the interim analysis (i.e., 
dosed on or before December 23, 2015)” (Statistical Methods, p. 14). 
 
Pre-specified methods of handling missing data 
“Missing data will be imputed on an individual motor milestone level. If a motor 
milestone is missing at screening, then the missing value will be imputed as the median 
of the non-missing values of the stratum to which the subject belongs to: age at 
symptom onset (≤12 weeks, >12 weeks) by disease duration (≤12 weeks, >12 weeks). 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 171===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
51 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Specifically, the four strata are: 
• Age at symptom onset ≤12 weeks and disease duration ≤12 weeks 
• Age at symptom onset ≤12 weeks and disease duration >12 weeks 
• Age at symptom onset >12 weeks and disease duration ≤12 weeks 
• Age at symptom onset >12 weeks and disease duration >12 weeks 
In the event of no observed data for imputation, disease duration will be used as the 
classification factor for the purpose of identifying non-missing data for imputation. If for 
the subject with missing motor milestones at a particular visit, the corresponding visit is 
flanked by visits with non-missing Motor Milestones, the missing value for those motor 
milestones will be imputed using linear interpolation with the result rounded to the 
nearest integer score. Otherwise, if the missing visit is the last visit, missing motor 
milestone value will be imputed as the lowest value in the stratum (age at symptom 
onset by disease duration) to which the subject belongs within the same treatment 
group at the same visit only in the two situations below: 
1. Only a subset of motor milestones was assessed during the visit. 
2. The subject is in the (interim) efficacy set, but the subject has neither died nor 
withdrawn from the study with no assessment at Day 183, Day 302, or Day 394. 
In this case, only the Day 183 assessment will be imputed. 
In the event of no observed data for imputation, disease duration by treatment will be 
used as the classification factor for the purpose of identifying non-missing data for 
imputation. Of note, only observed data will be utilized for imputation purposes. 
Missing motor milestone items will be imputed first prior to any analysis” (Statistical 
methods, p. 21). 
 
Subgroup Analysis 
“The main analyses of time to death or permanent ventilation, motor milestones, CHOP 
INTEND, and overall survival results will be presented for the following subgroups: 
• age at symptom onset (<=12 weeks, >12 weeks) 
• disease duration at Screening (<=12 weeks, >12 weeks) 
• geographic region (North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific). Region is based not only on 
considerations of geography but also on the type of health care system and access to 
health care in each country” (Statistical Methods, p. 42) 
 
Protocol Amendments 
 
The protocol and statistical plan were amended for the interim analysis, which changed the 
primary endpoint, as discussed above in Section 6.1.1, Primary Efficacy Endpoints and Statistical 
Analysis Plan.  See Appendix 13.4 for a table of all protocol amendments. 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 172===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
52 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Data Quality and Integrity: Sponsor’s Assurance 
 
The applicant reports the following methods for assuring data quality and integrity, which 
appear adequate. 
 
“To ensure the quality of clinical data, a clinical data management review was performed on the 
subject data received by the Sponsor, Ionis Pharmaceuticals. During this review, subject data 
was checked for consistency, omissions, and any apparent discrepancies. In addition, the data 
was reviewed for adherence to the protocol and GCP... During the course of the study, Clinical 
Research Associates visited each study center at regular intervals. All monitoring visits were 
conducted according to the applicable ICH and GCP guidelines to ensure protocol adherence, 
quality of data, drug accountability, compliance with regulatory requirements, and continued 
adequacy of the study center and its facilities. During these visits, data were source verified... 
As part of the Sponsor’s quality assurance program, as of 15 August 2016, 3 study centers and 1 
central laboratory facility were audited for compliance with GCP... Protocol deviations 
identified during site monitoring were captured in a protocol deviation log and categorized as 
major or minor deviations.  These deviations were listed and major protocol deviations were 
summarized for both the ITT and Interim Efficacy sets” (CS3B CSR, pp. 50, 52).  
 
 CS3B Study Results  
6.1.2.
Compliance with Good Clinical Practices 
 
All clinical studies were conducted in accordance with Good Clinical Practice and the 
Declaration of Helsinki and local requirements, and in consideration of applicable regulatory 
guidance. (Clinical Overview, p. 8) 
Financial Disclosure
 
The applicant has adequately disclosed financial interests/ arrangements with clinical 
investigators as recommended in the guidance for industry Financial Disclosure by Clinical 
Investigators.  Twenty-three sub-investigators for the main efficacy study, CS3B, had missing 
financial disclosure forms.  This lack of disclosure does not raise serious questions about the 
integrity of the data because the study design minimizes bias through randomization and 
blinding. 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 173===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
53 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Patient Disposition 
 
Patient disposition is described in the following table, copied from the applicant. 
Note that 29% of control group patients discontinued treatment due to the “adverse event” of 
death, compared to 15% of the nusinersen group. 
 
Table 4:  Patient Disposition.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 63 
 
 
 
 
Protocol Violations/Deviations 
 
A summary of major protocol deviations is in the following table, copied from the applicant. 
Note that the same proportion (15%) of control and nusinersen subjects had major protocol 
deviations.  The “other” category consisted of miscalculations of disease duration by the study 
sites.  The applicant reports that these errors did not affect its statistical analyses because 
analyses using disease duration were made using actual dates of symptom onset and not study 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 174===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
54 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
site calculations.  The “enrollment criteria” deviation was from a patient who was born 1 week 
earlier (36 weeks gestation) than permitted in the enrollment criteria (37 to 42 weeks). 
 
Reviewer Comment:  These deviations do not appear likely to have significantly affected the 
study results. 
 
Table 5:  Summary of Major Protocol Deviations - ITT Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 263 
 
Table of Demographic Characteristics 
 
Study patient demographics are described in the following table, copied from the applicant. 
Overall, there appears to be an acceptable balance of demographic characteristics between the 
control and treatment groups which adequately represents the demographics of the intended 
patient population.   
 
Table 6:  Demography at Screening - ITT Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 67 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 175===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
55 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
  
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 176===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
56 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Other Baseline Characteristics (e.g., disease characteristics, important concomitant drugs) 
Baseline clinical characteristics of study patients are described in the following table copied 
from the applicant.  At baseline, subjects in the ISIS 396443 treatment group had a younger age 
of SMA symptom onset than the sham-procedure control group (median of 6.5 weeks vs. 8 
weeks) and required more ventilatory support (26% vs. 15%).  A greater percentage of infants in 
the ISIS 396443 group had a history of paradoxical breathing (ISIS 396443 vs. control: 89% vs. 
66%), pneumonia or respiratory symptoms (35% vs. 22%), and swallowing or feeding difficulties 
(51% vs. 29%).  (CS3B CSR, p. 65) 
 
Reviewer Comment:  The relatively more severe baseline SMA-related symptoms in the infants 
of the nusinersen group could potentially predispose them to more complications as the disease 
progresses which would have made it more difficult to show a benefit from nusinersen. 
 
Table 7:  SMA History - ITT Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 70 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 177===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
57 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
 
 
 
Baseline characteristics of motor milestone achievement, used for the primary endpoint of the 
efficacy evaluation, are described in the following table.  The control and nusinersen groups 
appear to be adequately balanced. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 178===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
58 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 8:  Motor milestones at baseline.  Source: CS3B CSR p. 191 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 179===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
59 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Treatment Compliance, Concomitant Medications, and Rescue Medication Use 
There are no documented differences in treatment compliance between the treatment and 
control groups. 
 
The most commonly used concomitant medications are listed in the following table, copied 
from the applicant.  A smaller percentage of subjects treated with ISIS 396443 were 
administered the H2 blocker ranitidine (28% vs. 39%).   A greater percentage of subjects 
receiving ISIS 396443 received amoxicillin with clavulanate potassium and azithromycin (13% 
vs. 7%), while a smaller percentage of these subjects received nystatin (15% vs. 20%) and 
vancomycin (4% vs. 20%).  The reported medication differences do not appear to have the 
potential to affect the trial efficacy analyses. 
 
Table 9:  Concomitant Medication Taken by 5% or More of Subjects – Safety Set.  CS3B CSR, p. 
79 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 180===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
60 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 181===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
61 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 182===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
62 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Efficacy Results – Primary Endpoint 
The table below shows the applicant’s report of the results of analysis of the primary endpoint, 
the proportion of motor milestone responders assessed by Section 2 of the Hammersmith 
Infant Neurological Examination.  A statistically significantly greater proportion of subjects 
achieved a motor milestone response in the ISIS 396443 group (21/51; 41%) compared to the 
sham control group (0/27; 0%) (p<0.0001).  During consultation with the Agency to develop the 
statistical analysis plan for the interim analysis, the Agency recommended expanding the set of 
subjects to be analyzed to include all infants who died and all who were withdrawn, resulting in 
52 ISIS 396443-treated subjects being compared with 30 control subjects.  The applicant reports 
that the motor milestone response was 40% of the ISIS 396443 group and 0% of the control 
group, p<0.0001.  This result was confirmed by the FDA biostatistician, with a motor milestone 
response of 20/52=40.4% for nusinersen and 0/30 (0%) for the sham group, p<0.0001.  Using a 
stricter definition of motor milestone responder, requiring at least a 2-point increase in total 
motor milestone score in order to be classified as a responder, the applicant reported response 
rates of 37% and 0% in the ISIS 396443 and control groups, respectively, p<0.0001.    
 
Note that in the ISIS 396443 group, 9 subjects (18%) achieved full head control, 5 subjects (10%) 
achieved independent sitting, and 1 subject (2%) achieved standing with support.  No subjects 
in the control group achieved any of these milestones.  
 
Reviewer Comment:  There is agreement between the applicant and the FDA (analysis of the 
biostatistician, see separate statistical review) that the primary efficacy endpoint result of a 
higher percentage of motor milestone responders in the nusinersen group compared to the 
sham-control group is statistically significant.  The achievement of these motor milestones is not 
consistent with the natural history of type 1 SMA, in which patients never sit or stand, and 
represents a clinically meaningful improvement for these patients.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 183===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
63 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 10:  Applicant's interim analysis of primary endpoint:  Improvement in motor 
milestones from baseline:  Control 0 % vs. Nusinersen 41%, p<0.0001.  Source: CS3B CSR, p. 
89. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 184===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
64 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
The following two figures of HINE motor milestone scores in the control and nusinersen groups 
are intended to demonstrate the relative magnitudes and temporal progression of scores in the 
two groups.  In the nusinersen group, mean and median scores are higher at day 64 and 
continue to increase to day 302, compared to lower and stable or decreasing median and mean 
scores in the control group.  Note that the maximum possible HINE score is 26. 
 
 
Figure 7:  HINE motor milestone scores:  Sham-procedure control group evaluated at 
screening and at days 64, 183, 302, and 394.  Median, Mean, and number of subjects (N) are 
shown in the captions for each time point.  Box-and-whisker plot showing quartiles and 
outliers. 
 
                               Screening       Day 64          183             302            394 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 185===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
65 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Figure 8:  HINE motor milestone scores:  Nusinersen group evaluated at screening and at days 
64, 183, 302, and 394.  Median, Mean, and number of subjects (N) are shown in the captions 
for each time point.  Box-and-whisker plot showing quartiles and outliers. 
 
                               Screening       Day 64          183             302            394 
 
 
Geographic region 
As analyzed by the FDA biostatistician, forty two (42/78=54%) of the interim efficacy population 
were enrolled in the United States and 36 outside the US. Motor Milestone interim efficacy 
results within and outside the US were similar: 
• 9/23 (39%)  vs. 0/13 (0%) non-US and  
• 12/28(43%) vs. 0/14 (0%) within the US. 
   
The largest US site had 10 patients assigned to nusinersen and 1 to placebo; fifty percent of the 
nusinersen group responded in this site as compared to 0% of placebo. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 186===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
66 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Second Primary Endpoint, Time to death or permanent ventilation 
 
The applicant reports the results for the second primary endpoint descriptively, as summarized 
in the Kaplan-Meier curves and the tables below.  There is a numerical trend toward lower 
mortality in the nusinersen group (15%) compared to the sham-procedure group (32%), as 
reported by the applicant.  Analysis by the FDA biostatistician found a Hazard Ratio = 0.5 with  p 
= 0.09 for all causes of mortality, showing a numerically lower risk of mortality in the 
nusinersen group compared to the sham-procedure control group.  The applicant reported 
similar rates of permanent ventilation in the nusinersen group (19%) compared to the sham-
procedure group (22%).  A subject was considered to have received permanent ventilation if a 
tracheostomy was performed or if a subject required at least 16 hours of ventilator support per 
day continuously for more than 21 days in the absence of an acute reversible event.   
 
Reviewer Comment:  The second primary endpoint of time to death or permanent ventilation is 
only reported descriptively.  There appears to be a trend towards reduced mortality in the 
nusinersen group that may support, and does not contradict, the positive results of the first 
primary endpoint.  The shorter study time (~13 months) of the interim analysis may make it 
more difficult to detect a survival difference because more than approximately 80% of type 1 
SMA patients could be alive at that time if they received intensive mechanical respiratory 
support (Gregoretti et al., 2013).   
 
 
The following five figures and tables depict Kaplan-Meier curves of time to death or permanent 
ventilation with supporting data tables copied from the applicant, as well as Kaplan-Meier 
survival curves based on mortality calculated by the FDA biostatistician. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 187===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
67 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Figure 9:  Kaplan-Meier Curves for Time to Death or Permanent Ventilation (EAC-Adjudicated 
Events) ITT Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 104 
 
 
Figure 10:  Summary of Time to Death or Permanent Ventilation (EAC-Adjudicated Events) - 
Descriptive Analysis, ITT Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 105 
 
Nusinersen 
Sham-procedure Control 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 188===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
68 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 11:  Summary of Time to Death - Descriptive Analysis – ITT Set 
 
 
 
Figure 11:  Kaplan-Meier survival curves based on mortality from all causes in the ITT 
population.  Hazard Ratio=0.5;  p=0.09.  Source:  FDA biostatistician 
 
Nusinersen 
Sham-procedure Control 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 189===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
69 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
Table 12:  Summary of Percentage of Subjects Requiring Permanent Ventilation – ITT Set.  
Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 108. 
 
Data Quality and Integrity – Reviewers’ Assessment  
No clinical research sites were identified by OSI as potentially fraudulent.  No sites existed 
where investigators received significant financial compensation. 
Efficacy Results – Secondary and other relevant endpoints 
Reviewer Comment:  All remaining efficacy endpoints for study CS3B are reported descriptively, 
as agreed with the Agency for the interim statistical analysis plan.  There is no statistical 
adjustment for multiplicity. 
 
Results of Secondary Efficacy Endpoints 
 
• Proportion of Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia Infant Test for Neuromuscular Disease 
(CHOP INTEND) responders.   
 
The applicant reports a numerical improvement in CHOP INTEND scores in the nusinersen-
treated patients versus a decline in the sham-procedure controls as illustrated in the following 
figures and table copied from the applicant.  The applicant defined a CHOP INTEND responder 
as a subject with an increase of 4 or more points from the baseline CHOP INTEND total score.  
This definition appears reasonable given that the mean rate of decline of CHOP INTEND scores 
in type 1 SMA patients was 1.27 points/year (95% confidence interval 0.21–2.33, p=0.02) in the 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 190===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
70 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
study by Finkel et al. (2014). 
 
Figure 12:  CHOP INTEND Total Score Over Time: Mean Results - Interim Efficacy Set.  
Maximum possible score = 64.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 114 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nusinersen 
Sham-procedure 
Control 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 191===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
71 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Figure 13:  CHOP INTEND Total Score Over time: Mean Change from Baseline - Interim Efficacy 
Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 115 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nusinersen 
Sham-procedure 
Control 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 192===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
72 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 13:  CHOP INTEND: Change from Baseline to Day 394 Visit.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 310 
 
 
• Survival rate. 
The applicant reports that 12 subjects (15%) in the ISIS 396443 group and 13 subjects 
(32%) in the control group had died by the data cutoff date, as shown in the following 
table copied from the applicant.  See also the Kaplan-Meier survival curves shown in the 
discussion of the primary endpoint results above. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 193===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
73 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 14:  Summary of Time to Death - Descriptive Analysis – ITT Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 
109 
 
 
 
• Percent of subjects not requiring permanent ventilation. 
The applicant reports that none of the subjects required permanent ventilation at 
baseline. Fifteen subjects (19%) in the ISIS 396443 group and 9 subjects (22%) in the 
control group had required permanent ventilation by the data cutoff date, as shown in 
the table below copied from the applicant.  The applicant states that “of the 15 subjects 
in the ISIS 396443 group who required permanent ventilation, 8 (53%) were still within 
the loading dose period (up to Day 64) when permanent ventilation occurred, before 
maximal efficacy could be achieved” (CS3B CSR, p. 103). 
 
Reviewer Comment:  There appears to be a similar rate of permanent ventilation in the 
nusinersen and control groups overall, with a numerically lower rate in the nusinersen 
group from day 182 to the end of the study.  
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 194===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
74 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 15:  Summary of Percentage of Subjects Requiring Permanent Ventilation – ITT Set.  
Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 108 
 
 
• Proportion of compound muscle action potential (CMAP) responders. 
The applicant defined a CMAP responder as a subject for whom the peroneal amplitude 
increased to, or was maintained at, 1 mV or more compared to baseline. Response was 
based on the later of the Day 183, Day 302, or Day 394 measurements. Subjects who died or 
were withdrawn from the study were considered non-responders. The results are shown in 
the following tables and figures, copied from the applicant.   
 
Reviewer Comment:  There appears to be a numerical improvement in CMAP amplitudes in 
both the peroneal and ulnar nerves for the nusinersen group, compared to a decline in CMAP 
amplitudes of both the peroneal and ulnar nerves for the sham-procedure control group.  
Note that a declining CMAP amplitude has been described as characteristic of type 1 SMA 
(Swoboda et al., 2005).  The numerical improvement shown here is not normally seen in the 
natural history of type 1 SMA and is consistent with the positive efficacy result found for the 
primary endpoint described above.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 195===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
75 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 16:  CMAP Peroneal Amplitude (mV): Change from Baseline by Visit - Interim Efficacy 
set 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 196===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
76 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 17:  CMAP Ulnar Amplitude (mV): Change from Baseline by Visit - Interim Efficacy set.  
Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 319 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 197===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
77 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Figure 14:  Peroneal nerve CMAP Amplitude Over Time: Mean Change from Baseline - Interim 
Efficacy Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 120 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
    
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 198===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
78 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Figure 15:  Ulnar nerve CMAP Amplitude Over Time: Mean Change from Baseline - Interim 
Efficacy Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 121 
 
 
• Time to death or permanent ventilation in the subgroups of subjects below the study 
median disease duration. 
 
The results are summarized descriptively in the following table copied from the applicant, 
showing a numerical difference favoring the nusinersen group. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 199===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
79 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 18:  Summary of Time to Death or Permanent Ventilation in the Subgroups of Subjects 
Below the Study Median Disease Duration - Descriptive Analysis, ITT Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, 
p. 106. 
 
 
 
• Time to death or permanent ventilation in the subgroups of subjects above the study 
median disease duration. 
 
The results are summarized descriptively in the following table copied from the applicant, 
showing a numerical trend favoring the sham-procedure control group.  As described in the 
results of “Percent of subjects not requiring permanent ventilation” above, the applicant 
attributes this negative finding to death or permanent ventilation events occurring prior to 
completion of the loading dose in the nusinersen group.   
 
Reviewer Comment:  An alternative interpretation might be that nusinersen was less 
effective or even harmful in patients with a longer disease duration at the time of treatment.  
However, the proportion (55%) of subjects above the study median disease duration who 
died or required permanent ventilation matches the control group by study day 182, 
suggesting that the baseline imbalance (discussed above in “Other Baseline Characteristics”) 
in the age of onset and severity of SMA associated symptoms might account for the early 
difference in times to death or permanent ventilation.  Note that this is the only secondary 
endpoint result that is not consistent with the positive efficacy result of the primary 
endpoint.  
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 200===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
80 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
Table 19:  Summary of Time to Death or Permanent Ventilation in the Subgroups of Subjects 
Above the Study Median Disease Duration - Descriptive Analysis, ITT Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, 
p. 107. 
 
 
 
 
 
Results of Tertiary Efficacy Endpoints 
 
• Change from baseline in growth parameters (weight for age/length, chest circumference, 
head to chest circumference ratio, and arm circumference). 
 
Change from baseline in growth parameters was similar between the control and nusinersen 
groups.  There was a numerical difference at day 394 with a greater increase in weight (3.1 vs. 
3.9kg control), body length (13.5 vs. 20.6cm control), and arm circumference (1.4 vs. 1.7cm 
control) in the control group.  See Appendix 13.5 for the data tables. 
 
Reviewer comment:  This numerical difference does not appear to be clinically significant. 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 201===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
81 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
• Number of serious respiratory events. 
The results for this endpoint are shown in the table below, copied from the applicant.  A greater 
percentage of subjects in the ISIS 396443 group experienced serious respiratory events (ISIS 
396443 vs. control: 73% vs. 67%).  Note that the nusinersen group was followed for a longer 
period of time, potentially allowing more serious respiratory events to be observed.   
 
Reviewer comment:  This numerical difference is difficult to interpret given the difference in 
baseline respiratory symptom history between the nusinersen and control groups described in 
Section 6.1.1 above.   
 
Table 20:  Number of Serious Respiratory Events - Interim Efficacy Set 
 
 
 
• Number of hours of ventilation support. 
 
Patients in the nusinersen group spent numerically less time with ventilation support than 
patients in the control group, as shown in the table below copied from the applicant. 
 
Reviewer comment:  This numerical difference appears to be consistent with the primary 
efficacy endpoint results.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 202===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
82 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 21:  Percentage of Time on Ventilator Support - Interim Efficacy Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, 
p. 125 
 
 
• Number and length of hospitalizations. 
Patients in the nusinersen group had more hospitalizations than the control group but 
spent a smaller proportion of time in the hospital as described in the following tables 
copied from the applicant. 
 
Reviewer comment:  This descriptive result is difficult to interpret given the potential for 
lumbar puncture-related adverse events to increase the number of hospital visits in the 
nusinersen group.  The numerical difference in hospitalization time, greater in the 
control group, does not contradict the positive primary endpoint result. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 203===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
83 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 22:  Number of Hospitalizations - Interim Efficacy Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 127 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 23:  Proportion of Time of Hospitalization - Interim Efficacy Set.  Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 
128 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 204===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
84 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Dose/Dose Response 
See section 7.1.4. 
 
Durability of Response 
In study CS3B, separation from the control group in motor milestone measurements did not 
clearly occur until after Day 64, likely reflecting the need for completion of the loading dose 
period before maximal benefit was observed.  Improvements in motor milestones over time 
continued to be seen at up to 1 year (Day 394). 
 
Persistence of Effect 
This analysis is not permitted by the available data.  Persistence of effect is expected for at least 
4 months, which is nusinersen’s half-life in spinal cord tissue and CSF.   
 
Additional Analyses Conducted on the Individual Trial 
The reader is referred to the separate statistical review for sensitivity analyses. 
   Uncontrolled Open-label studies 
6.2.
The applicant provided data from six uncontrolled open-label studies of nusinersen both in the 
above-discussed infantile-onset SMA patients, as well as in other types/age ranges of SMA 
patients (pre-symptomatic infants with genetically diagnosed SMA from ages 8-42 days; later-
onset patients from ages 2-17 years;  SMN2 copy numbers ranging from 2-5 corresponding to 
SMA types 2 and 3) listed in the table below provided by the applicant.  The studies are 
described briefly below.  Study CS10 was an extension study for patients who completed CS1.  
Study CS12 was an extension study for patients who completed studies CS2 and CS10.  
 
Reviewer Comment:  These open-label studies are difficult to interpret due to the intrinsic 
limitations of the study design, such as the lack of placebo control groups and the potential for 
observer bias in some endpoints.  The results are reported descriptively.  The results may lend 
supportive efficacy evidence if there is a consistent positive trend across studies and endpoints.   
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 205===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
85 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Figure 16:  Uncontrolled Open-Label Studies of Nusinersen.  Source:  Summary of Clinical 
Efficacy-iii, pp. 35-37 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 206===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
86 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 207===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
87 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
 
 Study CS3A:  A Study to Assess the Efficacy, Safety, Tolerability, and 
6.2.1.
Pharmacokinetics of Multiple Doses of Nusinersen (ISIS 396443) Delivered 
Intrathecally to Patients with Infantile-Onset Spinal Muscular Atrophy 
 
Study CS3A was an unblinded, open-label, historical control trial in 20 infants with infantile-
onset SMA  in which patients received 6mg or 12mg of nusinersen loading dose followed by 
12mg maintenance dose for up to 163 weeks (~3 years).  Patients had genetic documentation 
of 5q SMA homozygous gene deletion or mutation and onset of clinical signs and symptoms 
consistent with SMA at ≥21 days and ≤6 months (180 days) of age. 
 
The primary endpoint was the proportion of subjects who achieved improvement in motor 
milestones as evaluated by Section 2 of the Hammersmith Infant Neurological Examination 
(HINE) discussed previously. Improvement was defined as achievement of at least one of the 
following: 
• An increase of at least 2 milestones from baseline or achievement of pincer 
grasp in the voluntary grasp category. 
• An increase of at least 2 milestones from baseline or achievement of touching 
toes in the ability to kick category. 
• An increase of 1 milestone in any of the 6 remaining categories (head control, 
rolling, sitting, crawling, standing, or walking). 
 
The secondary efficacy endpoints were the following: 
• Event-free survival determined by the proportion of subjects who are alive and 
do not require permanent ventilatory support (defined as tracheostomy or the 
need for ≥16 hours ventilation/day continuously for at least 2 weeks in the 
absence of an acute reversible illness) 
• Improvement in muscle strength as measured by the Children’s Hospital of 
Philadelphia Infant Test for Neuromuscular Disease (CHOP INTEND) 
• Improvement in neuromuscular electrophysiology measured by the compound 
muscle action potential (CMAP) of the ulnar and peroneal nerves  (Study CS3A 
CSR, p. 26 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 208===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
88 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
6.2.1.1 Study CS3A Results 
 
Primary endpoint:  the proportion of subjects who achieved improvement in motor 
milestones as evaluated by Section 2 of the Hammersmith Infant Neurological Examination 
(HINE). 
 
There was improvement in motor milestone scores as shown in the following tables copied 
from the applicant.  Cohort 1 (n=4) had a 6mg loading dose on Days 1, 15, and 85, while cohort 
2 (n=16) had a 12mg loading dose on Days 1, 15, and 85. 
 
Reviewer Comment:  This result is consistent with the results of the sham-procedure control 
study, CS3B, reported in Section 6.1 above.   
 
Table 24:  Summary of Motor Milestones Total Score at Last Visit, Safety Population (N=20).  
Cohort 1 had 6mg loading dose.  Cohort 2 had 12mg loading dose.  Source:  CS3A CSR, p. 92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 209===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
89 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 25:  Summary of Proportion of Subjects who Achieve Full Head Control, Independent 
Sitting, Rolling, Crawling, Standing, or Walking at Last Visit, Safety Population (N=20).  Cohort 
1 had 6mg loading dose.  Cohort 2 had 12mg loading dose.  Source:  CS3A CSR, p. 263 
 
 
Secondary efficacy endpoints: 
• Event-free survival determined by the proportion of subjects who are alive and 
do not require permanent ventilatory support (defined as tracheostomy or the 
need for ≥16 hours ventilation/day continuously for at least 2 weeks in the 
absence of an acute reversible illness) 
 
The results for event-free survival are described in the following table, copied 
from the applicant.  Note that cohort 2 of study CS3A, with the same 12mg 
loading dose used in study CS3B, had a higher percentage of event-free survival 
compared to the lower dose (6mg) of cohort 1 (69% cohort 2 vs. 50% cohort 1 at 
day 910).    
 
Reviewer Comment:  This result is consistent with the results of the sham-
procedure control study, CS3B, reported in Section 6.1 above.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 210===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
90 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 26:  Summary of Event-Free Survival, Safety Population (N=20).  Cohort 1 had 6mg 
loading dose.  Cohort 2 had 12mg loading dose.  Source:  CS3A CSR, p. 103 
 
 
 
• Improvement in muscle strength as measured by the Children’s Hospital of 
Philadelphia Infant Test for Neuromuscular Disease (CHOP INTEND) 
 
The results for change in CHOP INTEND scores are described in the following 
table and figure, copied from the applicant.   
 
Reviewer Comment:  This result is consistent with the results of the sham-
procedure control study, CS3B, reported in Section 6.1 above.  The initial drop in 
CHOP INTEND score of the lower dose cohort 1 at day 29 contrasts with the initial 
increase of the higher dose cohort 2, although following completion of the 
loading doses (day 85) the CHOP INTEND scores began to increase at day 92 for 
the lower dose cohort 1 also.  Given the long half-life of nusinersen, this finding 
may suggest that a sufficient concentration was not present following the second 
loading dose and that the third loading dose was needed in order to reach an 
effective concentration in the CSF.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 211===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
91 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 27:  Summary of CHOP INTEND Infant Motor Function Scale Total Score to Day 92, 
Safety Population (N = 20).  Cohort 1 had 6mg loading dose.  Cohort 2 had 12mg loading dose.  
Source:  CS3A CSR, p. 402 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 212===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
92 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Figure 17:  Summary of CHOP INTEND Infant Motor Function Scale Total Score Over Time, 
Safety Population (N=20).  Cohort 1 had 6mg loading dose.  Cohort 2 had 12mg loading dose.  
Source:  CS3A CSR, p. 110 
 
 
• Improvement in neuromuscular electrophysiology measured by the compound 
muscle action potential (CMAP) of the ulnar and peroneal nerves  (Study CS3A 
CSR, p. 26 
 
The result for change in CMAP amplitudes is described in the following tables and figures, 
copied from the applicant.   
 
Reviewer Comment:  This result is consistent with the results of the sham-procedure control 
study, CS3B, reported in Section 6.1 above.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 213===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
93 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 28:  Summary of CMAP amplitude to Day 92, Safety Population (N = 20).  Cohort 1 had 
6mg loading dose.  Cohort 2 had 12mg loading dose.  Source:  CS3A CSR, p. 468 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 214===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
94 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
Figure 18:  CMAP Over Time: Mean Results, Safety Population (N = 20).  Cohort 1 had 6mg 
loading dose.  Cohort 2 had 12mg loading dose.  Source:  CS3A CSR, p. 114 
 
 
 
 
 Study SM201:  An Open-Label Study to Assess the Efficacy, Safety, Tolerability, 
6.2.2.
and Pharmacokinetics of Multiple Doses of ISIS 396443 Delivered Intrathecally to 
Subjects With Genetically Diagnosed and Presymptomatic Spinal Muscular 
Atrophy 
 
Study SM201 was a multicenter, open-label study in up to 25 infants with 
genetically diagnosed, presymptomatic SMA who were ≤6 weeks of age at the time 
of enrollment.  Eligible subjects had a genetic diagnosis of 5q SMA and 2 or 3 
copies of SMN2 (corresponding to types 1, 2, or 3 SMA) but no signs or symptoms 
of SMA. The study examined 12 mg equivalent loading and maintenance doses of 
ISIS 396443 in an identical regimen to the sham-procedure controlled study CS3B, 
described in Section 6.1 above. Study SM201 evaluated both motor function and 
survival along with safety and PK of ISIS 396443.  Preliminary efficacy data for 
thirteen subjects evaluated at up to 64 days were available.  (Clinical Overview, p. 
12; Summary of Clinical Efficacy iii, p. 53).   
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 215===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
95 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
The primary endpoint of the study was the time to death or respiratory intervention (invasive 
or noninvasive ventilation for ≥6 hours/day continuously for ≥7 days OR tracheostomy). 
 
The secondary efficacy endpoints of this study were as follows (all were assessed at 
approximately 13 and 24 months of age unless otherwise noted): 
• Proportion of subjects who developed clinically manifested SMA as defined by any 
of the following: 
Age-adjusted weight <5th percentile or decrease of ≥2 major weight growth 
curve percentiles (3rd, 5th, 10th, 25th, or 50th) or a percutaneous gastric tube 
placement for nutritional support 
Failure to achieve the ability to sit without support 
Failure to achieve standing with assistance 
Failure to achieve hands and knees crawling 
Failure to achieve walking with assistance by 24 months of age 
Failure to achieve standing alone by 24 months of age 
Failure to achieve walking alone by 24 months of age 
 
• Proportion of subjects alive at 13 and 24 months of age 
• Attainment of motor milestones assessed as part of the HINE, Section 2, at 13 and 
24 months of age 
• Attainment of motor milestones as assessed by WHO criteria at 13 and 24 months of 
• age 
• Change from Baseline in the CHOP INTEND motor function scale 
• Change from Baseline in growth parameters: weight for age/length, head 
circumference, chest circumference, head-to-chest circumference ratio, and arm 
circumference  (Study SM201 CSR, pp. 21-22) 
 
 
6.2.2.1 Study SM201 Results 
 
Primary Endpoint:  Time to Death or Respiratory Intervention 
No subject has met the primary endpoint of death or respiratory intervention, defined as either 
invasive or noninvasive ventilation for ≥6 hours/day continuously for ≥7 consecutive days or 
tracheostomy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 216===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
96 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Secondary endpoints 
• Proportion of subjects who developed clinically manifested SMA  
 
Four out of 10 subjects who had an opportunity to have Days 183 assessments had 
manifestations of SMA symptoms, as illustrated in the following table provided by the 
applicant.   
 
Reviewer Comment:  Note that no subjects lost motor milestones that had been 
attained, consistent with both the HINE motor milestone results of this study and the 
primary efficacy study CS3B. 
 
Table 29: Summary of SMA Symptoms in Subjects Observed up to 6 Months of Age (Efficacy 
Set With Opportunity to Attend Day 183) .  Source:  SM201 CSR, p. 83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 217===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
97 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
• Proportion of subjects alive at 13 and 24 months of age 
 
The applicant reports that no subjects had died by the time of data reporting.  One 
subject had reached 13 months of age, as shown in the figure below.  No subjects had 
yet reached 24 months of age at the time of data reporting for this application. 
 
Figure 19:  Kaplan-Meier Plot of Age at Death or Ventilation for ≥6 Hours/Day for 1 or More 
Days - ITT Set.  Source:  SM201 CSR, p. 394 
 
 
Reviewer Comment:  Most type 1 SMA patients do not survive to 24 months of age, and less 
than 25% would be expected to survive to 13 months of age without treatment.  Intensive 
ventilatory support can extend life beyond 24 months.  The applicant reports that 6/10 patients  
with efficacy data for day 183 had not yet manifested any SMA symptoms.  Note, however, that 
3 of the 10 subjects had 3 copies of SMN2, which corresponds to type 2 or 3 SMA, in which 
patients typically survive into adulthood.   
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 218===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
98 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
• Attainment of motor milestones assessed as part of the HINE, Section 2, at 13 and 24 
months of age 
 
Reviewer comment:  As seen in the following table copied from the applicant, there 
appears to be a positive trend of increasing motor milestone scores that is consistent 
with the results of the primary efficacy study CS3B, described above in Section 6.1. 
 
Table 30:  HINE Total Motor Milestones: Change From Baseline by Visit - Efficacy Set.  Source:  
SM201 CSR, pp. 244-245  
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 219===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
99 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
 
• Attainment of motor milestones as assessed by WHO criteria at 13 and 24 months of 
age 
 
The applicant reports that “at Day 302, 5 subjects with 2 SMN2 copies had a WHO 
motor milestone assessment, and 1 subject achieved the WHO motor milestone of 
sitting without support, while 1 subject, who was able to sit without support at Day 183, 
achieved the WHO motor milestones of crawling on hands and knees, standing with 
assistance, and walking with assistance. This subject achieved the WHO motor 
milestone of standing alone at Day 365” (SM201 CSR, p. 74). 
 
Reviewer Comment:  The reported motor milestone development is inconsistent with the 
natural history of SMA and is consistent with the results of the primary efficacy study 
CS3B, described above in Section 6.1.  Note that no subjects in study CS3B became able 
to walk, whereas one of five subjects (20%) with 2 SMN2 copies corresponding to type 1 
SMA in study SM201 became able to walk with assistance and stand alone.  This result 
suggests that earlier treatment may yield a greater benefit. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 220===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
100 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 31:  WHO motor milestones by visit - Efficacy Set.  Source:  SM201 CSR, pp.  428-435 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 221===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
101 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 222===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
102 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
• 
Change from Baseline in the CHOP INTEND motor function scale.   
 
Reviewer comment:  As seen in the table below copied from the applicant, there appears 
to be a positive trend of increasing CHOP INTEND scores that is consistent with the 
results of the primary efficacy study CS3B, described above in Section 6.1. 
 
Table 32:  Total CHOP INTEND: Change From Baseline by Visit - Efficacy Set.  Source:  Study 
SM201 CSR, p. 143 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 223===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
103 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
 
• 
Change from Baseline in growth parameters: 
weight for age/length, head circumference, chest circumference, head-to-chest 
circumference ratio, and arm circumference  (Study SM201 CSR, pp. 21-22) 
 
The applicant reports that at Day 183, 4 subjects (3 subjects with 2 SMN2 copies and 1 
subject with 3 SMN2 copies) were determined to have growth failure because their 
weight for age decreased by ≥2 major percentiles.  Individual length for age percentiles 
increased over time for all subjects. At Day 183, 4 subjects were within the 10th and 
75th percentile for length for age, 3 subjects were ≤3rd percentile for length for age, 
and 2 subjects were above the 95th percentile for length for age. 
 
Reviewer Comment:  These open-label and uncontrolled results for a small study 
population are of unclear clinical significance. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 224===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
104 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 33:  A subset of growth parameters at day 302 of Study SM201.  Source:  SM201 CSR, 
pp. 342-353  
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 225===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
105 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
 
 
 Study CS1:  An Open-label, Escalating Dose Study to Assess the Safety, 
6.2.3.
Tolerability and Dose-range Finding of a Single Intrathecal Dose of ISIS 396443 in 
Patients with Spinal Muscular Atrophy 
Study CS1 was a Phase 1, open-label, single-dose, dose-escalation study to evaluate 
the safety, tolerability, and PK of a single dose of ISIS 396443 administered IT in 
subjects with SMA who were 2 to 14 years of age. The study consisted of 4 dose 
cohorts (Cohort 1 = 1 mg ISIS 396443, [n = 6]; Cohort 2 = 3 mg ISIS 396443, [n = 6]; 
Cohort 3 = 6 mg ISIS 396443, [n = 6]; and Cohort 4 = 9 mg ISIS 396443, [n = 10]). 
 
Exploratory Efficacy Variables 
 
As described by the applicant (CS1 CSR, pp. 31-32), the following exploratory 
efficacy variables were assessed. 
 
At Baseline, Day 29, and Day 85 (Cohorts 3 and 4 only), subjects were evaluated 
using the 
Hammersmith Functional Motor Scale – Expanded (HFMSE).  The HFMSE is a tool 
used to assess motor function in children that has been validated for use in SMA 
(Glanzman 2011). The maximum score for this test is 66; higher scores indicate 
better motor function. 
 
Health-related quality of life was assessed using the Pediatric Quality of Life 
Inventory™ (Generic Core Scales and Neuromuscular Module). 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 226===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
106 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
In Cohort 4 only, plasma samples were collected at Baseline, Day 29, and Day 85 
for evaluation using the Spinal Muscular Atrophy-Multi Analyte Profiling (SMA-
MAP) plasma biomarker panel, an exploratory method for identifying potential 
biomarkers of SMA disease. 
 
In Cohort 4 only, measurements of Compound Muscle Action Potential (CMAP) and 
quantitative multipoint Motor Unit Number Estimation (MUNE) were assessed in 
subjects at Baseline and End-of Study (Day 85). CMAP and MUNE are 
electrophysiological techniques that used to assess motor neurons in a muscle or 
group of muscles.  
 
6.2.3.1  Study CS1 Results 
 
The HFMSE results are shown in the following table, copied from the applicant. 
There is an increase in HFMSE scores that was largest in the 9mg dose cohort at 
the Day 85 assessment.  
 
Reviewer Comment:  This result could suggest a nusinersen dose-dependent 
improvement in motor function as measured by the HFMSE, although the 
performance at the 6mg dose was worse than at the 3mg or 1mg doses at day 29. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 227===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
107 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 34:  Hammersmith Test of Motor Function – Expanded Version Data for all Subjects 
Enrolled in ISIS 396443-CS1.  Source:  CS1 CSR, p. 53 
 
 
 
 
The Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory showed higher health-related quality of life assessments 
over time with increasing dose, as seen in the following table copied from the applicant. 
 
Reviewer Comment:  Note that although the quality of life results appear favorable towards 
nusinersen, such subjective measurements are susceptible to bias given the open-label nature of 
the study.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 228===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
108 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
Table 35:  Summary of PedsQL Generic Core Scales - Patient: Total Score Safety Population 
(N=28) 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 229===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
109 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
 
 
 
The applicant reports that no clinically significant changes from baseline were noted from the 
assessment of the exploratory SMA-MAP plasma biomarker panel in the Cohort 4 subjects 
studied.  Data tables from the applicant are presented in Appendix 13.7.  
 
In Cohort 4 only, measurements of Compound Muscle Action Potential (CMAP) and 
quantitative multipoint Motor Unit Number Estimation (MUNE) were assessed in subjects at 
Baseline and End-of Study (Day 85).   As seen in the tables below, there was a small (6%) drop in 
CMAP amplitude at the day 85 assessment compared to baseline and a 37% increase in MUNE. 
 
Reviewer Comment:  This observed increase in the number of motor units in the studied muscle 
is difficult to interpret.  Kang et al. (2014) reported a stabilization of CMAP with spontaneous 
increase in motor unit number estimation (MUNE) in SMA2 patients. 
 
  
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 230===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
110 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
Table 36:  Summary of CMAP Amplitude, Safety Population (N=28).  Source:  CS1 CSR, p. 195 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 231===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
111 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 37:  Summary of MUNE, Safety Population (N=28).  Source:  CS1 CSR, p. 202 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 232===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
112 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 Study CS10:  An Open-label Study to Assess the Safety and Tolerability of a 
6.2.4.
Single Intrathecal Dose of ISIS 396443 in Patients with Spinal Muscular Atrophy 
Who Previously Participated in ISIS 396443-CS1 
 
Study CS10 was an open-label study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and PK of a 
single dose of ISIS 396443 (6 or 9 mg) administered IT by lumbar puncture (LP) in 
subjects with SMA who previously participated in ISIS 396443-CS1. This study was 
initiated using a single dose of 6 mg ISIS 396443 (4 subjects enrolled); however, 
emerging data indicated that 9 mg ISIS 396443 was well-tolerated and thus the 
study was amended to a single dose of 9 mg ISIS 396443 (14 subjects enrolled). 
(CS10 CSR, p. 2) 
 
The same exploratory efficacy variables described above for study CS1 (HFMSE, 
 Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory™, CMAP and MUNE, but without the Spinal 
Muscular Atrophy-Multi Analyte Profiling (SMA-MAP) plasma biomarker panel) 
were used for study CS10.  
 
 
6.2.4.1 Study CS10 Results 
 
HFMSE was measured at Screening, Day 85, and Day 169 or early termination.  The 
results are summarized in the following figure and table copied from the applicant, 
which shows the largest changes from baseline in the cohort that received the 
highest dose, 9mg, in both studies CS1 and CS10. 
 
Reviewer Comment:  This result provides further support to the interpretation that 
there is a nusinersen dose-dependent improvement in motor function. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 233===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
113 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Figure 20:  Long-Term Progression of HFMSE Scores from ISIS 396443-CS1 Baseline to ISIS 
396443-CS10 Day 169 as Presented by their ISIS 396443-CS1 Dose Cohort. Bars represent 
Mean ± SD.  Source:  CS10 CSR, p. 44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

===PAGE 234===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
114 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 38:  Hammersmith Test of Motor Function - Expanded Version Data - ISIS 396443-CS1 
and ISIS 396443-CS10.  Source:  CS10 CSR, p. 45 
 
 
 
The applicant reports that the patient-reported Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory™ was 
incomplete because some patients were too young to complete the questionnaire.  The patient 
and parental results are summarized in the following tables, copied from the applicant. 
 
Reviewer Comment:  Parents appear to favor the higher two nusinersen doses (6mg, 9mg) in the 
parental quality of life responses, while patients favor the two lower doses (3mg, 6mg).  
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 235===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
115 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
However, these subjective results are difficult to interpret given the open-label nature of the 
study.   
 
Table 39:  Summary of PedsQL Generic Core Scales Compared to CS1 Baseline; Evaluable 
Population (N=18).  Source:  CS10 CSR, p. 252 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 236===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
116 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 40:  Summary of PedsQL Generic Core Scales Compared to CS10 Baseline; Evaluable 
Population (N=18).  Source:  CS10 CSR, p. 254 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 237===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
117 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 41:  PedsQLTM Generic Core Scales and Neuromuscular Module – Parent Assessments.  
Source:  CS10 CSR, p. 47 
 
 
 
CMAP and quantitative multipoint MUNE were assessed only in subjects who were previously 
enrolled in the 9-mg ISIS 396443-CS1 dose cohort (N = 8); assessments were performed at 
Screening, Day 85, and Day 169.  The results are shown in the following tables copied from the 
applicant. 
 
Reviewer Comment:  These results are consistent with the results of study CS1, with a relatively 
stable CMAP amplitude and an increase in MUNE.  This observed increase in the number of 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 238===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
118 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
motor units in the studied muscle is difficult to interpret.  Kang et al. (2014) reported a 
stabilization of CMAP with spontaneous increase in motor unit number estimation (MUNE) in 
SMA2 patients. 
 
Table 42:  CMAP and MUNE Results 
 
 
 
 Study CS2:  An Open-label, Dose Escalation Study to Assess the Safety, 
6.2.5.
Tolerability and Dose-range Finding of Multiple Doses of ISIS 396443 Delivered 
Intrathecally to Patients with Spinal Muscular Atrophy 
 
Study CS2 was a multiple-dose, dose-escalation study to test the safety, 
tolerability, and dose-range of ISIS 396443 administered as IT injections by lumbar 
puncture (LP) to SMA patients aged 2 to 15 years. Four (4) dose levels (3, 6, 9, and 
12 mg) of ISIS 396443 were evaluated sequentially in 4 separate cohorts as follows: 
• Cohort 1: 3 mg ISIS 396443 administered on Days 1, 29, and 85, IT injection 
• Cohort 2: 6 mg ISIS 396443 administered on Days 1, 29, and 85, IT injection 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 239===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
119 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
• Cohort 3: 9 mg ISIS 396443 administered on Days 1 and 85, IT injection 
• Cohort 4: 12 mg ISIS 396443 administered on Days 1, 29, and 85, IT injection  
(CS2 CSR, p. 22). 
 
Exploratory efficacy variables included HFMSE, Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory™, 
CMAP and MUNE, the Upper Limb Module test, muscle strength using hand-held 
dynamyometry, the 6-minute Walk Test (6MWT), and the Assessment of Caregiver 
Experience with Neuromuscular Disease (ACEND) questionnaire.  (CS2 CSR p. 38) 
 
The Upper Limb Module Test assesses upper limb function in patients with 
SMA. It consists of 9 upper limb performance items (e.g., raise a can to mouth as if 
drinking, take a coin and place it in a box, remove the lid of a container). 
 
The 6MWT evaluates functional exercise capability by measuring the distance a 
person can walk in 6 minutes. 
 
The ACEND questionnaire is intended to quantify the caregiver impact experienced 
by parents of children, including domains assessing physical impact 
(feeding/grooming/dressing, sitting/play, transfers, and mobility) and general 
caregiver impact (time, emotion, and finance). 
 
 
6.2.5.1  Study CS2 Results 
 
Hammersmith Test of Motor Function Expanded Version (HFMSE)  (CS2 CSR, p. 65) 
Subjects were evaluated using the HFMSE at Baseline and on Days 92, 169, and 253. 
The results are shown in the following table and figure, copied from the applicant. 
 
Reviewer Comment:  There appears to be a consistent trend of increasing HFMSE over 
time with nusinersen treatment in the 6mg, 9mg, and 12mg cohorts. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 240===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
120 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 43:  Hammersmith Test of Motor Function Expanded Version Data for Efficacy Evaluable 
Subjects.  Source:  CS2 CSR, p. 72 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 241===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
121 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

===PAGE 242===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
122 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Figure 21:  Mean (SEM) Change in HFMSE Score.  Source:  CS2 CSR, p. 71 
 
 
 
Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory™ 
 
The patient results are summarized in the following table, copied from the applicant. 
 
Reviewer Comment:  The results appear similar across doses, but these subjective results are 
difficult to interpret given the open-label nature of the study.   
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 243===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
123 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 44:  Summary of PedsQL™ Generic Core Scales - Patient: Total Score for Efficacy 
Evaluable Population.  Source:  CS2 CSR, p. 76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 244===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
124 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 45:  Summary of PedsQL™ Generic Core Scales - Parent: Total Score for Efficacy 
Evaluable Population.  Source:  CS2 CSR, p. 75 
 
 
CMAP and MUNE  
 
CMAP and quantitative multipoint MUNE were assessed at Baseline and on Days 92, 169, and 
253. Mean change and mean percent change results for CMAP amplitude, CMAP area, single 
motor unit action potential (SMUP) amplitude, and MUNE are shown in the following table, 
copied from the applicant. 
 
Reviewer Comment:  These results are consistent with the results of studies CS1 and CS10, with 
a relatively stable CMAP amplitude and an increase in MUNE.  This observed increase in the 
number of motor units in the studied muscle is difficult to interpret.  Kang et al. (2014) reported 
a stabilization of CMAP with spontaneous increase in motor unit number estimation (MUNE) in 
SMA2 patients. 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 245===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
125 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 46:  Mean Change and Mean Percent Change of CMAP Amplitude, CMAP Area, SMUP 
Amplitude, and MUNE Results for Efficacy Evaluable Population.  Source:  CS2 CSR, p. 79 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

===PAGE 246===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
126 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 247===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
127 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Upper Limb Module Test  
 
At Baseline and on Days 92, 169, and 253, 22 subjects who were non-ambulant were evaluated 
using the Upper Limb Module Test.  The results are shown in the following table, copied from 
the applicant.   
 
Reviewer Comment:  The small mean overall improvement (1.6) at day 253 with the largest 
change in the lowest dose cohort (3mg), a negative change at twice that dose (6mg), and the 
open-label nature of the study make this result difficult to interpret. 
 
Table 47:  Mean Change and Mean Percent Change of Upper Limb Module Test Results in the 
Non-Ambulant Efficacy Evaluable Subjects.  Source:  CS2 CSR, p. 82 
 
 
Muscle strength using hand-held dynamometry  
 
At Baseline and on Days 92, 169, and 253, hand-held dynamometry was used to measure 
muscle strength (elbow flexion and extension; knee flexion and extension) in 20 subjects who 
were ≥ 5 years of age at Screening.  The results are described in the following table, copied 
from the applicant.  Overall, mean increases (0.5 to 1.5 lbs; or 5.9-16.9% change) 
were noted in each of the myometry parameters measured on Day 253. The largest increases 
were noted in the 12-mg dose cohort for all parameters with the exception of left knee 
extension (highest in the 6-mg dose cohort on Day 253). 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 248===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
128 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
Reviewer Comment:  This result appears to indicate a nusinersen dose-dependent improvement 
in strength.  There is the potential for effort-dependent bias, i.e., patients who know they are on 
the largest dose exerting maximal effort, given the open-label nature of the study. 
 
Table 48:  Mean Change and Mean Percent Change of Myometry Results at Each Measured 
Timepoint for 20 Efficacy Evaluable Subjects with Measurements.  Source:  CS2 CSR, p. 84 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 249===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
129 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 250===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
130 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 251===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
131 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 252===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
132 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
 
 
The 6-minute Walk Test (6MWT)  
 
The 6MWT was assessed at Baseline and on Days 92, 169, and 253 in 13 subjects who were 
ambulant.  The results are summarized in the following table, copied from the applicant. 
 
Reviewer Comment:  The result indicates an increase in the distance patients were able to walk 
during the course of the study across all dose cohorts.  There is no clear dose dependence, with 
the largest percent change in the lowest dose cohort. 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 253===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
133 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 49:  Mean Change and Mean Percent Change of 6-Minute Walk Test Results for Efficacy 
Evaluable Population.  Source:  CS2 CSR, p. 89 
 
 
Assessment of Caregiver Experience with Neuromuscular Disease (ACEND) questionnaire. 
 
The ACEND questionnaire was administered at Baseline and on Days 92, 169, and 253. The 
ACEND is scored on a scale of 0-100 and higher scores are indicative of less intense caregiver 
impact.  The results are summarized in the following table, copied from the applicant.  At Day 
253 there appear to be small improvements in total score across all dose cohorts. 
 
Reviewer Comment:  It is difficult to interpret the small ACEND score changes given the open-
label study design and the subjective nature of the result. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 254===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
134 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 50:  Mean Change and Mean Percent Change for ACEND at Day 253 – Efficacy Evaluable 
Population.  Source:  CS2 CSR, p. 92 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 255===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
135 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 256===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
136 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 Study CS12:  An Open-Label Study to Assess the Safety and Tolerability of ISIS 
6.2.6.
396443 in Patients With Spinal Muscular Atrophy Who Previously Participated in 
ISIS 396443-CS2 or ISIS 396443-CS10 
 
Study CS12 was a Phase 1, open-label study to test the safety, tolerability, efficacy, 
and PK of ISIS 396443 (4 doses of 12 mg at 6-month intervals) administered as IT 
injections by lumbar puncture in subjects with later-onset (type II and type III) SMA 
who previously participated in studies CS2 or CS10, summarized in the table above.  
Subjects were expected to participate in CS12 for up to approximately 2 years (final 
follow up study visit on Day 715).   
 
The Hammersmith Functional Motor Scale – Expanded (HFMSE), a tool used to 
assess motor function in children that has been validated for use in SMA 
(Glanzman 2011) was used to evaluate motor function in all subjects. The 
maximum score for this test is 66; higher scores indicate better motor function. 
Subjects were evaluated using the HFMSE at Baseline (i.e., during the Screening 
Period of the CS12 study) and on Days 85, 169, 260, 351, 442, 533, 624, and 715. 
 
The 6MWT was used to evaluate the walking ability and endurance of ambulatory 
subjects.  Subjects were considered ambulatory at Screening if they had ever 
walked at least 15 feet independently without support or braces (based on 
reported medical and SMA history) AND maintained that ability at Screening of 
Study CS12. Consistent with the natural history of type II SMA, none of the subjects 
with type II SMA had achieved independent ambulation at baseline (Table 37); 21 
of 25 subjects with type III SMA were considered ambulatory 
(Table 38).  (CS12 CSR, p. 60) 
 
The Upped Limb Module Test (ULMT) was used to measure motor function in non-
ambulatory subjects. The ULMT was conducted at Baseline (during the Screening 
Period of the study) and on Days 85, 169, 260, 351, 442, 533, 624, and 715. The 
total score ranges from 0 to 18, with higher scores indicating greater functional 
ability. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 257===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
137 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
6.2.4.1 Study CS12 Results 
 
HFMSE results are described in the tables copied from the applicant below.  Mean HFMSE,  
6MWT distance, and ULT are above baseline at day 624.  There is a decrease in both mean 
HFMSE and 6MWT distance at day 715 which the applicant attributes to an outlier (a patient 
with a femur fracture at the time of evaluation).   
 
Reviewer Comment:  There appear to be small positive trends across the evaluated parameters. 
The clinical significance of these small changes in efficacy measurements is unclear.  Note that 
HFMSE scores are generally stable over 12 month intervals in the natural history of type 2 SMA.  
Kaufman (2012) reported a mean HFMSE decline of -0.54 (95% CI -1.45 to 0.36) over 2 years in 
type 2 SMA. 
 
Table 51:  Summary of Expanded Hammersmith Functional Motor Scale Total Score - 
Evaluable Set, Source:  CS12 CSR, pp. 41-49 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 258===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
138 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
 
Table 52:  Summary of 6 Minute Walk Test - Evaluable Set.  Source:  CS12 CSR, p. 277 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 259===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
139 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
 
 
Table 53:  Summary of Upper Limb Function Test - Evaluable Set.  Source:  CS12 CSR, p. 51 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 260===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
140 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
 
 
 
   Study CS4:  A Phase 3 sham-procedure controlled study of nusinersen in 
6.3.
patients with later-onset spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) 
The following description of the interim analysis of a sham-procedure controlled study 
of nusinersen in later-onset (type 2 based on SMN2 number, age of onset, and lack of 
baseline ambulation) SMA was provided by the applicant following NDA submission.   
 
Reviewer Comment:  The results described by the applicant below appear to indicate a 
clinically meaningful benefit from nusinersen in type 2 SMA patients, although the data 
from this study were not submitted as part of this NDA and therefore could not be 
reviewed. 
 
As of the August 31, 2016 data cut-off for the interim analysis, a total of 126 subjects 
received at least 1 dose of study treatment (ISIS 396443 (n= 84) or sham procedure 
control (n= 42)) and were included in the Intent-to-treat (ITT) Set. No subjects in either 
treatment group discontinued treatment. In total, 35 (42%) of subjects in the ISIS 
396443 group and 19 (45%) of subjects in the sham control group have completed the 
study. The ITT population is the primary population for the analysis of efficacy 
endpoints, with the exception of WHO motor milestone endpoints. 
 
An Interim Efficacy Set (IES) was defined for the analysis of WHO motor milestone 
endpoints, and was defined as all subjects who had the opportunity to be assessed at 
the Month 15 visit. The IES included 54 subjects (35 subjects randomized to ISIS 396443 
and 19 subjects randomized to sham).  Baseline disease characteristics were generally 
well-balanced between the two treatment groups.  Consistent with a population most-
likely to have type 2 SMA, the majority of subjects in the ITT had 3 copies of the SMN2 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 261===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
141 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
gene (range: 2-4 copies), no subject was able to walk independently at baseline, and the 
mean age at symptom onset was 11.2 months (range: 6-20). 
 
The primary efficacy endpoint is the change from baseline in HFMSE score at 15 months. 
The HFMSE is a tool used to assess motor function in children with SMA [O'Hagen 2007]. 
Over 12 months, a decline of -0.56 and -0.57 points was observed in ambulant and non-
ambulant patients with later-onset SMA [Mercuri 2016]. An improvement of ≥3 points in 
HFMSE is estimated to represent a clinically meaningful improvement [Swoboda 2010].  
Since not all subjects have had the opportunity for assessment at Month 15, the 
multiple imputation method was used to account for missing month 15 values at the 
interim, as outlined in the Statistical Analysis Plan (SAP). 
 
A statistically significant change from baseline in HFMSE score was observed in the ISIS 
396443 group (4.0 (95% CI: 2.9-5.1)) compared to the sham control group (-1.9 (95% CI: 
-3.8-0.0)) (p=0.0000002). A consistent effect was observed across all sensitivity analyses 
conducted, including an analysis based on observed Month 15 values. 
 
Secondary endpoints were descriptively reported as per the SAP and are described 
below. No formal statistical comparison was performed and no p-values were calculated 
for statistical inference for these endpoints. 
 
HFMSE 
A greater proportion of subjects in the ITT set achieved a 3-point or greater increase 
from baseline HFMSE score at 15 months in the ISIS 396443 group (57.3%) compared to 
the sham control group (20.5%). 
 
WHO motor milestone achievement 
A greater proportion of subjects in the IES achieved a new WHO motor milestone at 15 
months in the ISIS 396443 group (17.1%) compared to the sham control group (10.5%). 
Similarly, the mean number of new motor milestones achieved at 15 months was 
greater in the ISIS 396443 group (0.2 (min, max: 0, 2) compared to the sham control 
group (-0.1, min, max: -1, 1). 
 
In patients with type II SMA, the decline in muscle strength is reflected in a slowly 
progressive loss of upper limb function [Mercuri 2016]. The Upper Limb Module was 
designed specifically for assessing upper limb function in non-ambulatory patients with 
SMA [Mazzone 2016] and has been shown to correlate with the outcomes for HFMSE. In 
the ITT, the mean change from baseline in ULM score at 15 months was greater in the 
ISIS 396443 group (3.7) compared to the sham control group (0.3)” (CS4 Topline Data 
Summary). 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 262===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
142 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Figure 22:  Mean change from baseline (observed values) over time – ITT Set.  Source:  CS4 
Topline Data Summary 
 
7 Integrated Review of Effectiveness 
 
Assessment of Efficacy Across Trials 
7.1.
 Primary Endpoints 
7.1.1.
 
Motor milestone development was the primary endpoint used for infantile-onset SMA patients 
in both the main efficacy study, CS3B, and the open-label study CS3A.  It was also a secondary 
endpoint in study SM201 of presymptomatic infants with genetically diagnosed SMA.  Type 1 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 263===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
143 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
SMA infants have impaired development of motor milestones, which forms part of the 
phenotypic definition of SMA.  As discussed in Section 6.1.1, The Hammersmith Infant 
Neurological Examination (HINE) appears to be an acceptable tool to assess motor milestone 
development in type 1 SMA patients based on a retrospective study of 33 type I SMA infants 
(De Sanctis et al., 2016).   
 
Study CS3B found that 40% (20/52) of the infants who received nusineren had an improvement 
in motor milestone development (milestone responder defined in Section 6.1.1) compared to 
0% (0/30) of the sham-procedure control group, p<0.0001.  This result is supported by the 
descriptive results of both studies CS3A and SM201.  In study CS3A, there was a 732% mean 
increase from baseline HINE score (from 2.3 to 12.9) in infants who received the same dose, 
12mg, of nusinersen used in study CS3B.  Descriptions and rates of key motor milestone 
achievements in studies CS3A and CS3B are listed below (SCE, p. 66). 
• Full head control: 9 subjects (18%) in CS3B and 9 subjects (45%) in CS3A 
• Independent sitting (either prop, stable sit, or pivot): 5 subjects (10%) in CS3B 
and 8 subjects (40%) in CS3A 
• Rolling (prone to supine or supine to prone): 18 subjects (35%) in CS3B and 7 
subjects (35%) in CS3A 
• Standing (with support or unaided): 1 subject (2%) in CS3B and 5 subjects (25%) 
in CS3A 
• Walking (holding on or unaided): 2 subjects (10%) in CS3A 
For study SM201, the mean HINE score increased from 3.1 at baseline to 25 after 1 year.  Five 
subjects became able to sit independently, 1 became able to stand unaided, 2 other subjects 
became able to stand with support, and one subject became able to walk with support.  Note 
that the genetically based diagnosis in these presymptomatic infants from study SM201 meant 
that some might actually be types 2 or 3 SMA, since final diagnosis is based on the timing of 
symptom development and phenotype.   
 
A summary of HINE scores over time across these three studies is shown in the following figure, 
copied from the applicant. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 264===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
144 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Figure 23:  Total HINE Motor Milestones Across Three Studies, CS3A, CS3B, and SM201.  
Source:  Summary of Clinical Efficacy, p. 65 
 
 
 
Reviewer Comment:  Overall, these results show a clinically meaningful benefit, with motor 
milestone improvement that is inconsistent with the natural history of the disease for type 1 
SMA infants. 
 
 Secondary and Other Endpoints 
7.1.2.
 
A descriptive summary of the secondary and other endpoints and results assessed across all 
studies, including the sham-procedure controlled study CS3B and all six open-label studies, is 
presented in the table of Appendix 13.8.  Quality of life and care assessments (PedsQL and 
ACEND) are not further discussed here due to the high risk of bias in these subjective measures 
for open-label studies.  Their results were previously discussed in Section 6.  Note that only the 
primary endpoint for study CS3B, discussed above, was evaluated statistically for this 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 265===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
145 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
application.  All other endpoints for study CS3B and the open-label studies are presented 
descriptively without correction for multiple comparisons. 
 
As seen in the table of Appendix 13.8 and in the following figures copied from the applicant, all 
three studies which assessed nusinersen efficacy through CHOP INTEND scores, CMAP, and 
survival (through control-comparison in CS3B or in relation to the natural history of SMA for 
CS3A and SM201) showed positive results that appear to support the efficacy of nusinersen in 
infantile-onset SMA patients and presymptomatic infants with a genetic SMA diagnosis.   
 
As shown in Appendix 13.8, there were mean CMAP amplitude decreases for CS1 and CS10 and 
a mean amplitude change of 0 for CS2.  Motor Unit Number Estimation (MUNE) had mean 
increases in all three studies in which it was assessed (CS1, CS10, and CS2).  However, CMAP 
and MUNE results in the later-onset (type 2 or 3) SMA patients of these open-label studies are 
difficult to interpret because Kang et al. (2014) found a stabilization of CMAP with spontaneous 
increase in motor unit number estimation (MUNE) in type 2 SMA patients. 
 
Motor function assessment through the Hammersmith Functional Motor Scale – Expanded 
(HFMSE) showed a trend of positive mean score changes, indicative of functional improvement, 
in studies CS1, CS10, and CS2.  Study CS12 showed a trend of increasing HFSME mean scores 
through study day 624, but with a mean decrease in HFMSE at the final assessment of day 715 
which the applicant attributes to an outlier. 
 
Upper Limb Module testing of motor function in non-ambulatory later-onset SMA patients in 
both studies CS2 and CS12 showed a numerically positive mean change over time.  
 
Growth changes were assessed in studies CS3B and SM201.  The result for SM201 is difficult to 
interpret given the lack of a control group.  For the sham-procedure controlled study CS3B, the 
numerical difference (greater weight, length, and arm circumference in the control group) is of 
unclear clinical significance.  The reader is referred to the safety review of Dr. Evelyn Mentari 
for further discussion. 
 
Myometry was only performed on later-onset SMA patients in study CS2 and showed a 
numerically positive increase in strength across all muscles tested. 
 
The Six Minute Walk Test (6MWT) was assessed in later-onset SMA patients in studies CS2 and 
CS12.  There were numerically positive changes in the distance walked for study CS2 and 
through day 624 of study CS12.  There was a mean decrease in 6MWT at the final assessment of 
day 715 for study CS12 which the applicant attributes to an outlier.   
 
Overall, the descriptive results of the secondary and other endpoints across all studies appear to 
lend support to the positive efficacy results of the primary endpoint (motor milestone response) 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 266===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
146 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
of sham-procedure controlled study CS3B. 
 
Figure 24:  Total CHOP INTEND Score Across Three Studies, CS3A, CS3B, and SM201.  Source:  
Summary of Clinical Efficacy, p. 69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 267===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
147 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Figure 25:  Kaplan-Meier Curves for Time to Death or Permanent Ventilation - Study CS3B, 
CS3A, and SM201.  Source:  Summary of Clinical Efficacy, p. 81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 268===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
148 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Figure 26:  Kaplan-Meier Curves for Time to Death – Study CS3B, CS3A, and SM201.  Source:  
Summary of Clinical Efficacy, p. 82 
 
 
 
 Subpopulations  
7.1.3.
 
The effect of nusinersen relative to sham control on efficacy measures was evaluated in 
subgroups based on SMA history and geographic region in the pivotal study in infantile-onset 
SMA (Study CS3B), as summarized in the figure below copied from the applicant.  The results 
are generally similar in the various subpopulations shown, although there appear to be 
insufficient data (N=4) to adequately assess response for the Asia-Pacific region.  The response 
also appears to be better in subjects with an earlier age of symptom onset (<=12 weeks). 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 269===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
149 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Figure 27:  Difference in Proportion of Responders and 95% Confidence Intervals for Motor 
Milestones Subgroup Analyses - Interim Efficacy Set:  Source:  Summary of Clinical Efficacy, p. 
86 
 
 
 
 Dose and Dose-Response 
7.1.4.
 
The applicant’s recommended dose is 4 loading doses of 12 mg ISIS 396443 on Days 
 
 followed by maintenance doses of 12 mg every 4 
months. 
 
(Introduction, p. 2) 
 
The applicant reports that the dose level selected for this multiple-dose clinical study (12 mg 
ISIS 396443) was predicted to achieve levels of approximately 10 μg/g lumbar spinal cord tissue 
and 3 μg/g cervical spinal cord tissue following the first dose based on nonclinical studies in 
juvenile monkeys.  Pharmacology and PK results in SMA transgenic mice led to estimates that 
Reference ID: 4026626
(b) (4)
(b) (4)

===PAGE 270===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
150 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
the target tissue concentration needed to produce 50% to 90% SMN2 exon 7 inclusion is 
between 1 and 10 μg/g in spinal cord tissue.  The loading dose interval (i.e., doses on Study 
Days 1, 15, 29, and 64) was selected based on nonclinical PK and pharmacology data to achieve 
and maintain ISIS 396443 spinal cord tissue levels within the upper end of the 
pharmacologically active range by Day 64 (approximately 30 μg/g lumbar and 10 μg/g cervical 
spinal cord tissue concentrations). The maintenance dose interval (once every 4 months on 
Study Days 183 and 302) was selected based on the estimated spinal tissue and CSF drug half-
life (4 to 6 months) to maintain spinal cord tissue levels of ISIS 396443 at a steady-state level 
within the estimated pharmacologically active range (CS3B CSR, pp. 37-38). 
 
Reviewer Comment:  Doses of 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 mg of nusinersen were studied by the applicant 
in prior open-label studies.  12mg was selected based on the positive efficacy results of those 
studies, which are discussed in more detail in Section 6.  The applicant does not explicitly 
address the question of weight or age-based dosing of nusinersen for adult patients, who have a 
larger total CSF volume than children (125 to 150 ml in adults; 65 to 140ml in children ages 4-
13; and 40ml in a term gestation neonate (Bonadio, 1992)). The applicant’s argument for the 
current dose does not have a clear rationale for extrapolating the dose to adults, focusing 
instead on the spinal cord drug distribution models and the results of their trials in infants and 
children.  
 
  The applicant’s argument is essentially that nusinersen 
is effective in children despite the lower concentration, justifying a single dose regimen for all.  
In order to evaluate this assertion, FDA staff analyzed the Hammersmith Functional Motor 
Scale-Expanded (HFMSE) scores from study CS12 stratified by age.  The results, shown in the 
following figure, indicate relative stability of HFMSE scores in the teenage and young adult 
patients studied over approximately 2 years.  This result is not inconsistent with a treatment 
benefit in patients with an adult CSF volume, although the potential for a greater effect with 
doses scaled as a function of weight or age cannot be excluded.     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
(b) (4)

===PAGE 271===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
151 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Figure 28:  Hammersmith Functional Motor Scale-Expanded (HFMSE) scores over time from 
study CS12 for individual subjects, showing subject age in the horizontal axis.  Source:  FDA 
staff analysis of study CS12 data 
 
 
 
 
 Onset, Duration, and Durability of Efficacy Effects 
7.1.5.
 
In the sham-procedure controlled study CS3B, separation from the control group in motor 
milestone measurements did not clearly occur until after Day 64, likely reflecting the need for 
completion of the loading dose period before maximal benefit was observed. 
 
Improvements in motor milestones over time continued to be seen at up to 1 year (Day 394) in 
study CS3B and up to study day 757 in study CS3A.  See the figure in Section 7.1.1, “Total HINE 
Motor Milestones Across Three Studies.”  In study CS3A, there was an upward trend of CHOP 
INTEND scores through study day 820.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 272===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
152 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Table 54:  Number of Doses and Time on Study: Studies in Symptomatic and Presymptomatic 
SMA.  Source:  Summary of Clinical Efficacy, p. 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 273===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
153 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
Additional Efficacy Considerations 
7.2.
 Considerations on Benefit in the Postmarket Setting  
7.2.1.
 
Given the invasive nature of nusinersen administration, requiring repeated lumbar punctures 
for an indefinite period of time, patients with milder forms of SMA (type 4) may need to weigh 
the potential benefits of treatment, the risk and discomfort of serial lumbar punctures, and the 
relative severity of their SMA symptoms in order to make individual treatment decisions. 
 
 Other Relevant Benefits  
7.2.2.
 
Although the primary sham-procedure control study CS3B was conducted in infantile-onset 
SMA patients, the applicant argues that nusinersen should be effective in treating all types of 
SMA.  The underlying cause of SMA, a deficiency of survival motor neuron (SMN) protein, is 
common to patients with all types of SMA (with increasing amounts of SMN corresponding to 
less severe disease).   It therefore may be reasonable to expect that nusinersen, which acts to 
increase the amount of full-length SMN2 mRNA for translation to SMN protein, should provide 
clinical benefit to all types of SMA patients.  The open-label studies (CS1, CS2, CS10, and CS12) 
included patients (ages 2-17) with 2 to 5 copies of the SMN2 gene and later symptom onset 
that corresponded to types 2 and 3 SMA.  The applicant subsequently submitted a summary 
(but no data, see Section 6.3) from study CS4, a sham-procedure controlled study of nusinersen 
in later-onset SMA (type 2 based on SMN2 number, age of onset, and lack of baseline 
ambulation).  The reported results from the open-label studies in later-onset SMA (see Section 
6.2, Appendix 13.8, and the figures below) combined with the results reported for study CS4 
support the conclusion that nusinersen also provides clinical benefit to patients with types 2 
and 3  SMA.  Nusinersen has not been studied in any patients with type 4 SMA, who have adult 
onset of progressive weakness that can lead to eventual loss of ambulation after years.    
Nusinersen increases the amount of full-length SMN2 mRNA for translation to SMN protein, 
whose variably low levels in the different types of SMA patients cause the different SMA 
phenotypes, and would therefore be expected to provide clinical benefit to type 4 SMA patients 
also, although they might not tolerate indefinite serial lumbar punctures if their symptoms are 
mild at baseline.   
 
The results available from study SM201 in presymptomatic genetically diagnosed SMA infants 
support early treatment with nusinersen in SMA patients.  The finding of improved response to 
nusinersen in study CS3B for patients with shorter disease duration (see Section 7.1.3) also 
supports early treatment of SMA patients with nusinersen.  
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 274===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
154 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Figure 29:  HFMSE Score Mean Change from Baseline Over Time- SMA Type II: Subjects with 
Later-onset Type II SMA, Longitudinal Analysis of Study CS2/CS12.  Source:  Summary of 
Clinical Efficacy, p. 72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 275===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
155 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Figure 30:  HFMSE Score Mean Change from Baseline Over Time- SMA Type III: Subjects with 
Later-onset Type III SMA, Longitudinal Analysis of Study CS2/CS12.  Source:  Summary of 
Clinical Efficacy, p. 73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 276===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
156 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Figure 31:  Upper Limb Module Mean Change From Baseline Over Time - SMA Type II, 
Longitudinal Analysis of Study CS2/CS12.  Source:  Summary of Clinical Efficacy, p. 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 277===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
157 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Figure 32:  6MWT Mean Change From Baseline Over Time - SMA Type III, Longitudinal 
Analysis of Study CS2/CS12.  Source:  Summary of Clinical Efficacy, p. 77 
 
 
 
 
 
Integrated Assessment of Effectiveness 
7.3.
 
The Agency may consider “data from one adequate and well-controlled clinical investigation 
and confirmatory evidence” to constitute substantial evidence of effectiveness if FDA 
determines that such data and evidence are sufficient to establish effectiveness (Section 115(a) 
of the Modernization Act). 
 
The sham-procedure controlled study CS3B is the one adequate and well-controlled efficacy 
study that can support approval of nusinersen for the treatment of infantile-onset SMA 
patients.   It is a single well-designed multicenter study that has provided reliable and 
statistically strong (p<0.0001) evidence of an important clinical benefit, motor milestone 
development that is inconsistent with the natural course of the disease, with a numerical trend 
towards a beneficial effect on survival.  A confirmatory sham-procedure controlled study in 
infantile onset SMA, who typically die by 2 years of age, would have been difficult to conduct 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 278===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
158 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
on ethical grounds. 
 
In addition to the strongly positive primary endpoint for study CS3B, in which the motor 
milestone response was 40% for nusinersen and 0% for the sham-procedure control group 
(p<0.0001), there were numerically positive results (see Section 6.1.2, 7.1.2, and Appendix 13.8)   
for the additional endpoints of survival, neuromuscular function as measured by the CHOP 
INTEND score, and motor nerve function as measured by the CMAP amplitude.   
 
The positive results of the single adequate and well-controlled study are lent further support by 
descriptive results in 6 open-label studies (see Section 6.2, 7.1.2, and Appendix 13.8) as well as 
a report of a statistically significant result (p=0.0000002) assessing motor function by HFMSE 
score in a sham-procedure controlled study (CS4 in Section 6.3, data not available for review) in 
later-onset SMA patients.  The open-label trials (4 in later-onset SMA, 1 in presymptomatic 
infants, and 1 in infantile-onset SMA) and the report of the controlled trial CS4, while unable to 
support approval alone due to the uncontrolled nature of the former and the lack of submitted 
data for the latter, do not contradict the results of study CS3B.  They provide confirmatory 
evidence of nusinersen’s efficacy and allow reasonable extrapolation (See Section 7.2.2) of the 
use of nusinersen to the later-onset SMA population in addition to the infantile-onset patients 
studied in CS3B.   
 
8 Review of Safety 
 
The safety of nusinersen is reviewed by Dr. Evelyn Mentari in a separate review. 
9 Advisory Committee Meeting and Other External Consultations 
 
No Advisory Committee is planned for this application. 
10 Labeling Recommendations 
 
Prescribing Information 
10.1.
 
As discussed in Section 4.5, OCP recommends a fixed-dose of 12 mg/5 mL for all subjects with 
loading doses at days 
, followed by the same maintenance dose every 4 months 
Reference ID: 4026626
(b) (4)

===PAGE 279===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
159 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
thereafter. 
 
The reader is referred to the safety review by Dr. Evelyn Mentari for comments about safety in 
nusinersen labeling. 
 
Patient Labeling 
10.2.
 
The reader is referred to the safety review by Dr. Evelyn Mentari for discussion of safety issues 
that might warrant a Medication Guide, patient package insert (PPI), or instructions for use.  
Note that nusinersen is not administered by patients themselves or their family members, but 
must be given intrathecally by a supervising physician. 
 
Nonprescription Labeling 
10.3.
 
Not applicable to this application. 
11 Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies (REMS) 
  
A REMS is not proposed for this application. The reader is referred to Dr. Mentari’s safety 
review. 
12 Postmarketing Requirements and Commitments 
 
There are no post-marketing efficacy requirements.  For potential safety requirements, the 
reader is referred to Dr. Mentari’s safety review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 280===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
160 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
13 Appendices 
 
 References 
13.1.
Arkblad, E., Tulinius, M., Kroksmark, A., Henricsson, M., & Darin, N. (2009, May). A population-
based study of genotypic and phenotypic variability in children with spinal muscular 
atrophy. Acta Paediatr, 98(5), 865-872. 
Arnold, W., Kassar, D., & Kissel, J. (2015, Feb). Spinal muscular atrophy: diagnosis and 
management in a new therapeutic era. Muscle Nerve, 51(2), 157-167. 
Bonadio, W. (1992, Jun). The cerebrospinal fluid: physiologic aspects and alterations associated 
with bacterial meningitis. Pediatr Infect Dis J., 11(6), 423-431. 
De Sanctis, R., Coratti, G., Pasternak, A., & et al. (2016, Nov). Developmental milestones in type 
I spinal muscular atrophy. Neuromuscul Disord, 26(11), 754-759. 
Finkel, R., Bertini, E., Muntoni, F., & Mercuri, E. (2015, Jul). 209th ENMC International 
Workshop: Outcome Measures and Clinical Trial Readiness in Spinal Muscular Atrophy 
7-9 November 2014, Heemskerk, The Netherlands. Neuromuscul Disord, 25(7), 593-602. 
Finkel, R., McDermott, M., Kaufmann, P., & et al. (2014, Aug 26). Observational study of spinal 
muscular atrophy type I and implications for clinical trials. Neurology, 83(9), 810-817. 
Glanzman, A., Mazzone , E., Main, M., Pelliccioni, M., Wood, J., Swoboda , K., et al. (2010, Mar). 
The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Infant Test of Neuromuscular Disorders (CHOP 
INTEND): test development and reliability. Neuromuscul Disord, 20(3), 155-161. 
Glanzman, A., O'Hagen, J., McDermott, M., Martens, W., Flickinger, J., Riley, S., et al. (2011, 
Dec). Validation of the Expanded Hammersmith Functional Motor Scale in spinal 
muscular atrophy type II and III. J Child Neurol, 26(12), 1499-1507. 
Gregoretti, C., Ottonello, G., Chiarini Testa, M., & et al. (2013, May). Survival of patients with 
spinal muscular atrophy type 1. Pediatrics, 131(5), e1509-1514. 
Jedrzejowska, M., Milewski, M., Zimowski, J., & et al. (2010). Incidence of spinal muscular 
atrophy in Poland--more frequent than predicted? Neuroepidemiology, 34(3), 152-157. 
Kang, P., Gooch, C., McDermott, M., & et al. (2014, May). The motor neuron response to SMN1 
deficiency in spinal muscular atrophy. Muscle Nerve, 49(5), 636-644. 
Kaufmann, P., McDermott, M., Darras, B., Finkel, R., & et al. (2012, Oct 30). Prospective cohort 
study of spinal muscular atrophy types 2 and 3. Neurology, 79(18), 1889-1897. 
Lewelt, A., Krosschell, K., Scott, C., & et al. (2010, Nov). Compound muscle action potential and 
motor function in children with spinal muscular atrophy. Muscle Nerve, 42(5), 703-708. 
Matsuzawa, J., Matsui, M., Konishi, T., Noguchi, K., Gur, R., Bilker, W., et al. (2001, Apr). Age-
related volumetric changes of brain gray and white matter in healthy infants and 
children. Cereb Cortex, 11(4), 335-342. 
Mazzone, E., Mayhew, A., Montes, J., & et al. (2016, Oct 4). Revised upper limb module for 
spinal muscular atrophy: Development of a new module. Muscle Nerve. 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 281===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
161 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Mercuri, E., Bertini, E., & Iannaccone, S. (2012, May). Childhood spinal muscular atrophy: 
controversies and challenges. Lancet Neurol, 11(5), 443-452. 
Mercuri, E., Finkel, R., Montes, J., & et al. (2016, Feb). Patterns of disease progression in type 2 
and 3 SMA: Implications for clinical trials. Neuromuscul Disord, 26(2), 126-131. 
O'Hagen, J., Glanzman, A., McDermott, M., & et al. (2007, Oct). An expanded version of the 
Hammersmith Functional Motor Scale for SMA II and III patients. Neuromuscul Disord, 
17(9-10), 693-697. 
Prior, T. (2010, Mar). Perspectives and diagnostic considerations in spinal muscular atrophy. 
Genet Med, 12(3), 145-152. 
Shefner, J., Watson, M., Simionescu, L., & et al. (2011, Jul). Multipoint incremental motor unit 
number estimation as an outcome measure in ALS. Neurology, 77(3), 235-241. 
Sugarman, E., Nagan, N., Zhu, H., & et al. (2012, Jan). Pan-ethnic carrier screening and prenatal 
diagnosis for spinal muscular atrophy: clinical laboratory analysis of >72,400 specimens. 
Eur J Hum Genet, 20(1), 27-32. 
Swoboda, K., Prior, T., Scott, C., & et al. (2005, May). Natural history of denervation in SMA: 
relation to age, SMN2 copy number, and function. Ann Neurol, 57(5), 704-712. 
Swoboda, K., Scott, C., Crawford, T., & et al. (2010, Aug 19). SMA CARNI-VAL trial part I: double-
blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of L-carnitine and valproic acid in spinal 
muscular atrophy. PLoS One, 5(8), e12140. 
Wang, C., Finkel, R., Bertini, E., Schroth, M., Simonds, A., Wong, B., et al. (2007, Aug). Consensus 
statement for standard of care in spinal muscular atrophy. J Child Neurol, 22(8), 1027-
1049. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 282===
Clinical Review 
Rainer W. Paine, MD, PhD  
NDA 209531 
Spinraza, nusinersen 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
162 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
Financial Disclosure 
13.2.
  
 
Covered Clinical Study (Name and/or Number): ISIS 396443- CS3b 
 
Was a list of clinical investigators provided:  
 
Yes x
  No 
 (Request list from 
Applicant) 
Total number of investigators identified: 321 
Number of investigators who are Sponsor employees (including both full-time and part-time 
employees): Not stated, but sponsor states that the 321 investigators above have no 
financial interests with IONIS or Biogen.      
 
Number of investigators with disclosable financial interests/arrangements (Form FDA 3455): 
        23 investigators had missing financial disclosure forms. 
If there are investigators with disclosable financial interests/arrangements, identify the 
number of investigators with interests/arrangements in each category (as defined in 21 CFR 
54.2(a), (b), (c) and (f)): 
Compensation to the investigator for conducting the study where the value could be 
influenced by the outcome of the study: 0 reported 
Significant payments of other sorts: 0 reported 
Proprietary interest in the product tested held by investigator: 0 
Sponsor of covered study: 0 
Is an attachment provided with details 
of the disclosable financial 
interests/arrangements:  
Yes 
  
No 
 No disclosable financial 
interests/arrangements 
reported. 
 
Is a description of the steps taken to 
minimize potential bias provided: 
Yes x
  No 
 (Request information 
from Applicant) 
Number of investigators with certification of due diligence (Form FDA 3454, box 3) 321 
Is an attachment provided with the 
reason:  
Yes x
  No 
 (Request explanation 
from Applicant) 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 283===
Clinical Review 
{Insert Reviewer Name}  
{Insert Application Type and Number} 
{Insert Product Trade and Generic Name} 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
163 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
CHOP INTEND Scoring Sheet.  Source:  Glanzman et al., 2010 
13.3.
Reference ID: 4026626
COPYRIGHT MATERIAL WITHHELD

===PAGE 284===
Clinical Review 
{Insert Reviewer Name}  
{Insert Application Type and Number} 
{Insert Product Trade and Generic Name} 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
COPYRIGHT MATERIAL WITHHELD

===PAGE 285===
Clinical Review 
{Insert Reviewer Name}  
{Insert Application Type and Number} 
{Insert Product Trade and Generic Name} 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
165 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Reference ID: 4026626
COPYRIGHT MATERIAL WITHHELD

===PAGE 286===
Clinical Review 
{Insert Reviewer Name}  
{Insert Application Type and Number} 
{Insert Product Trade and Generic Name} 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
166 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
Protocol Amendments 
13.4.
Table 55:  Study CS3B Protocol Amendments 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 287===
Clinical Review 
{Insert Reviewer Name}  
{Insert Application Type and Number} 
{Insert Product Trade and Generic Name} 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
167 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 

===PAGE 288===
Clinical Review 
{Insert Reviewer Name}  
{Insert Application Type and Number} 
{Insert Product Trade and Generic Name} 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
168 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

===PAGE 289===
Clinical Review 
{Insert Reviewer Name}  
{Insert Application Type and Number} 
{Insert Product Trade and Generic Name} 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
169 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
Data tables from study CS3B for the tertiary efficacy endpoint “Change 
13.5.
from baseline in growth parameters (weight for age/length, chest 
circumference, head to chest circumference ratio, and arm circumference).” 
Table 56:  Change from Baseline for Growth Parameters at day 394 - Interim Efficacy Set.  
Source:  CS3B CSR, p. 331 
Arm Circumference (cm) 
 
 
 
Chest Circumference (cm) 
 
 
 
Weight (kg) 
 
 
 
Weight for Age Percentile  
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 290===
Clinical Review 
{Insert Reviewer Name}  
{Insert Application Type and Number} 
{Insert Product Trade and Generic Name} 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
170 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Body length (cm) 
 
 
 
Head circumference (cm) 
 
 
Head to chest circumference ratio 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 291===
Clinical Review 
{Insert Reviewer Name}  
{Insert Application Type and Number} 
{Insert Product Trade and Generic Name} 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
171 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
World Health Organization (WHO) Motor Milestones 
13.6.
“The WHO motor milestones are a set of 6 milestones in motor development, all of which 
would be expected to be attained by 24 months of age in healthy children. The individual 
milestones are as follows: sitting without support, standing with assistance, hands and knees 
crawling, walking with assistance, standing alone, and walking alone. The WHO reported that, 
in approximately 90% of cases, the order of attainment followed a fixed sequence for 5 of the 
milestones, with only hands and knees crawling shifting between the earlier milestones” 
(SM201 CSR, p. 36). 
 
Figure 33:  WHO Motor Milestones Normal Achievement Time Range 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 292===
Clinical Review 
{Insert Reviewer Name}  
{Insert Application Type and Number} 
{Insert Product Trade and Generic Name} 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
172 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
Study CS1, Plasma Biomarker Panel Results, Excerpt from CS1 listing of 
13.7.
labs, p. 1443  
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
  
 
 
(b) (4)
(b) (4)
(b) (4)

===PAGE 293===
Clinical Review 
{Insert Reviewer Name}  
{Insert Application Type and Number} 
{Insert Product Trade and Generic Name} 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
173 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
(b) (4)

===PAGE 294===
Clinical Review 
{Insert Reviewer Name}  
{Insert Application Type and Number} 
{Insert Product Trade and Generic Name} 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
174 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
 
Endpoint Summary Across Trials 
13.8.
Table 57:  Descriptive Summary of Endpoints and Results Across All Clinical Studies 
Endpoint 
Clinical Study 
CS3B 
CS3A 
SM201 
CS1 
CS10 
CS2 
CS12 
HINE 
(Motor 
Milestone
s) 
Nusinersen: 
40% 
responded, 
Control: 0% 
(p<0.0001) 
over ~ 13 
months 
13/20 
subjects 
(65%)  
attained 
new 
motor 
mileston
es over 
~2 years 
100% 
attained 
new 
motor 
milestone
s by day 
183 
CHOP 
INTEND 
Nusinersen:  
65% had >= 
4-point 
improvemen
t from 
baseline.  
Control: 4%  
Mean 
change 
from 
baseline 
was 
16.90 
points at 
the Day 
694 
visits. 
Mean (SD) 
change 
from 
Baseline 
at Day 302 
was 5.2 
(8.64) 
points 
Survival 
12 subjects 
(15%) in 
nusinersen 
group and 
13 subjects 
(32%) in 
control 
group died 
65% 
event-
free 
survival 
at 30 
months 
of age 
100% alive 
at 13 
months of 
age 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 295===
Clinical Review 
{Insert Reviewer Name}  
{Insert Application Type and Number} 
{Insert Product Trade and Generic Name} 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
175 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Endpoint 
Clinical Study 
CS3B 
CS3A 
SM201 
CS1 
CS10 
CS2 
CS12 
Growth 
Control 
group had 
greater 
increase in 
weight (3.1 
vs. 3.9kg 
control), 
body length 
(13.5 vs. 
20.6cm 
control), and 
arm 
circumferen
ce (1.4 vs. 
1.7cm 
control) 
 
Growth 
failure in 
4/17 
subjects 
(weight 
for age 
decreased 
by ≥2 
major 
percentile
s) 
CMAP 
amplitude 
Nusinersen:  
43% had 
>=0.5mV 
(peroneal 
nerve) 
increase vs.  
Control:  0% 
Mean 
change 
from 
baseline 
in nerve 
amplitud
e: 0.691 
mV 
(415.4%, 
ulnar); 
1.72 mV 
(388.3%, 
peroneal)   
Mean (SD) 
change at 
day 302 
from 
baseline 
amplitude 
(mV) 1.22 
(1.825, 
ulnar); 
0.07 (1.9, 
peroneal) 
mean 
change 
from 
baselin
e at 
Day 85 
=      -
0.2 
Mean 
change 
from 
baselin
e at day 
169 =     
-0.6mV 
Mean 
(SD) 
change 
from 
baseline 
at day 
253 = 0.4 
(0.9) for 
9mg 
dose; 0.0 
(1.0) for 
12mg 
dose 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 296===
Clinical Review 
{Insert Reviewer Name}  
{Insert Application Type and Number} 
{Insert Product Trade and Generic Name} 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
176 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Endpoint 
Clinical Study 
CS3B 
CS3A 
SM201 
CS1 
CS10 
CS2 
CS12 
HFMSE 
 
 
 
≥ 3 
Point 
Increas
e in 
7/10 
(70.0%) 
subject
s, 9mg 
dose 
Mean 
change 
from 
baselin
e of 5.8 
points 
(p = 
0.008, 
9mg 
dose) 
Mean 
change 
from 
baseline 
at day 
253 = 3.7 
points 
(9mg 
dose); 
2.3 
points 
(12mg 
dose) 
Mean 
(SD) 
change 
from 
baseline 
on day 
715=        
-0.65 
(8.49); 
median 
(25th 
percentil
e, 75th 
percentil
e) = 0.0  
(-1.0, 3.0) 
MUNE 
 
 
 
Mean 
change 
from 
baselin
e at 
Day 85 
= 16.9 
Mean 
change 
from 
baselin
e at day 
169 = 
11.4 
Mean 
change 
from 
baseline 
at day 
253= 
21.5 
(20.5, 
12mg 
dose) 
ULMT 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean 
change 
from 
Baseline 
on day 
253 = 1.6 
points 
Mean 
change 
from 
Baseline 
(SD) on 
day 715= 
1.00 
(1.11) 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 297===
Clinical Review 
{Insert Reviewer Name}  
{Insert Application Type and Number} 
{Insert Product Trade and Generic Name} 
 
CDER Clinical Review Template 2015 Edition 
 
177 
Version date: November 5, 2015 for initial rollout (NME/original BLA reviews) 
Endpoint 
Clinical Study 
CS3B 
CS3A 
SM201 
CS1 
CS10 
CS2 
CS12 
myometry 
 
 
 
 
 
On Day 
253, 
mean 
increase
s from 
0.5 to 
1.5 lbs 
(5.9-
16.9% 
change) 
were 
noted in 
all 
muscles 
tested 
6MWT 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean 
(SD) 
increase 
of 34.8 
(37.4) 
meters 
at Day 
253 
compare
d to 
baseline. 
Change 
from 
baseline 
on day 
715:  
Mean 
(SD, 
SEM)=      
-10.88 
(82.55, 
29.18); 
Median 
(P25, 
P75)=       
-18.50    
(-47.50, 
25.50) 
 
 
Reference ID: 4026626

===PAGE 298===
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is a representation of an electronic record that was signed
electronically and this page is the manifestation of the electronic
signature.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
/s/
----------------------------------------------------
RAINER PAINE
12/12/2016
NICHOLAS A KOZAUER
12/14/2016
Reference ID: 4026626
