
===PAGE 1===
CENTER FOR DRUG EVALUATION AND 
RESEARCH 
 
 
APPLICATION NUMBER: 
 
210922Orig1s000 
 
 
OTHER REVIEW(S) 

===PAGE 2===
 
Page 1 of 5 
 
Department of Health and Human Services 
Food and Drug Administration 
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research | Office of Surveillance and Epidemiology (OSE) 
 
Epidemiology: ARIA Sufficiency Memo: Onpattro (patisiran) 
Version: 2018-01-24 
 
Date: 
July 31, 2018  
Reviewer 
Elisa Braver, PhD  
Division of Epidemiology I 
 
Team Leader: 
Kira Leishear, PhD, MS 
 
 
 
 
Division of Epidemiology I 
Associate Division 
Wei Hua, PhD, MHS, MS  
Director: 
Division of Epidemiology I 
 
Subject: 
Active Risk Identification and Assessment (ARIA) Sufficiency 
Memo for Pregnancy Safety Concerns 
Drug Name: 
Onpattro (patisiran)  
Application Type/#: NDA 210922 
Applicant/Sponsor: 
Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  
OSE RCM #: 
2018-877 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4299930

===PAGE 3===
 
Page 2 of 5 
 
 
 
Expedited ARIA Sufficiency Template for Pregnancy Safety Concerns 
 
1. BACKGROUND INFORMATION  
1.1. Medical Product  
Hereditary transthyretin amyloidosis, known as hATTR, is one of a group of diseases 
characterized by deposition of an abnormal protein, amyloid, made by the liver into various 
organs of the body, including the central nervous system, heart, kidneys, and gastrointestinal 
tract.a HATTR results from mutations to the transthyretin (TTR) gene that in turn cause 
abnormal folding of the protein. One form of this disease causes sensorimotor peripheral 
neuropathy (with symptoms of numbness, pain, and weakness), focal nerve lesions (such as 
carpal tunnel syndrome), autonomic dysfunction (such as orthostatic hypotension), vitreous 
opacity of the eye, and glaucoma. This disease can be fatal.b Amyloid deposits in the heart 
can cause heart failure, chest pain, fluid overloads, and shortness of breath. There currently 
are no FDA-approved treatments; existing treatments aim at alleviating symptoms rather 
than addressing the underlying mutation or amyloid deposition.  
 
Onpattro (patisiran) is a new molecular entity with a proposed indication for treating 
polyneuropathy (PN) among adult patients with hATTR-PN. Patisiran is a small interfering 
ribonucleic acid that targets TTR messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) in order to suppress 
the production of TTR. It has been designated an Orphan drug and received a Fast Track 
designation.  
 
During the clinical trials, the most commonly observed (≥ 10%) adverse events associated  
with the use of patisiran in the 18-month placebo-controlled study were peripheral edema (30%);  
infusion-related reaction (19%); and back pain (14%). The adverse event that caused the most  
patients to stop taking patisiran across all clinical studies was cardiac failure  
(2 patients in the placebo-controlled study, 1.4%). The cardiac failures were considered as due  
to the underlying disease rather than attributed to patisiran. Patisiran depletes serum vitamin A  
levels, but supplementation with vitamin A may help.    
 
 
 
1.2. Describe the Safety Concern – Pregnancy Risk 
There are no available data in humans concerning the effects of patisiran use during pregnancy. 
Among Sprague-Dawley rats, no drug effects were observed on mating, sperm parameters, drug-
related fetal malformations, or pregnancy/uterine parameters following administration of 
                                                          
a National Center for Advancing Translational Science, National Institutes of Health. Familial Transthyretin 
Amyloidosis. Available: https://rarediseases.info nih.gov/diseases/656/transthyretin-amyloid-neuropathy  
b National Institute for Health And Care Excellence, United Kingdom. Available: 
https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/gid-hst10013/documents/draft-scope-pre-referral  
Reference ID: 4299930

===PAGE 4===
 
Page 3 of 5 
 
patisiran.c Development studies did not observe drug effects on physical, neurobehavioral, or 
reproductive development of offspring following weekly infusions of patirisan to pregnant rats. 
Fetal exposure was not detectable among rats. As observed in humans, suppression of TTR and 
decreases in vitamin A levels were observed among female rats. The doses in rats were up to 2.4 
times the recommended human dose.  
Among New Zealand White rabbits, administration of patisiran resulted in loss of litters that was 
thought to be secondary to maternal toxicity (i.e., weight loss and liquid feces) at doses that were 
greater than 3.2 times the recommended human dose. d In the embryofetal development study in 
rabbits, administration of patisiran on gestational days 7, 13, and 19 resulted in weight loss 
among the fetuses, but fetal exposure was not detectable among rabbits. No evidence of drug-
related fetal malformations or effects on pregnancy or uterine parameters was observed in the 
rabbits.  
 
1.3. FDAAA Purpose (per Section 505(o)(3)(B)) 
 
Purpose  
 
Assess a known serious risk 
 
Assess signals of serious risk 
 
Identify unexpected serious risk when available data indicate potential for 
serious risk 
X 
 
2. REVIEW QUESTIONS 
2.1. Why is pregnancy safety a safety concern for this product? Check all that apply. 
 
☐  Specific FDA-approved indication in pregnant women exists and exposure is expected 
☐  No approved indication, but practitioners may use product off-label in pregnant women 
☒  No approved indication, but there is the potential for inadvertent exposure before a 
pregnancy is recognized 
☒  No approved indication, but use in women of childbearing age is a general concern 
 
2.2. Regulatory Goal 
 
☒   Signal detection – Nonspecific safety concern with no prerequisite level of statistical 
precision and certainty 
☐   Signal refinement of specific outcome(s) – Important safety concern needing moderate level 
of statistical precision and certainty. 
 
☐   Signal evaluation of specific outcome(s) – Important safety concern needing highest level of 
statistical precision and certainty (e.g., chart review).  
                                                          
c David Carbone. Pharmacology/Toxicology NDA Review and Evaluation for Patisiran, July 11, 2018. Division of Neurology 
Products, Office of New Drugs (CDER/FDA). 
d Ibid. 
Reference ID: 4299930

===PAGE 5===
 
Page 4 of 5 
 
 
 
2.3. What type of analysis or study design is being considered or requested along with 
ARIA?  Check all that apply. 
 
☐   
Pregnancy registry with internal comparison group 
☒   
Pregnancy registry with external comparison group 
☐   Enhanced pharmacovigilance (i.e., passive surveillance enhanced by with additional actions) 
☐   Electronic database study with chart review 
☐   
Electronic database study without chart review 
☐   Other, please specify:        
 
2.4. Which are the major areas where ARIA not sufficient, and what would be needed to 
make ARIA sufficient? 
 
☒   Study Population 
☐   Exposures 
☒   Outcomes 
☐   Covariates 
☒   Analytical Tools 
 
For any checked boxes above, please describe briefly: 
 
 
Study Population and Outcomes: ARIA is insufficient to identify the study population (babies 
that experienced in utero exposure or postpartum exposure through lactation) because the 
mother and baby records are not currently linked in Sentinel.  Thus, the exposure 
corresponding to the mother and potential outcomes corresponding to the infant cannot be 
connected.  This lack of linkage between mother and baby records renders ARIA insufficient 
for both the study population and outcome identification.   
 
Analytical Tools: ARIA analytic tools are not sufficient to assess the regulatory question of 
interest because data mining methods have not been tested for birth defects and other 
pregnancy outcomes. 
 
We did not formally assess the other parameters given that the mother-infant linkage is not 
currently available in ARIA. 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5. Please include the proposed PMR language in the approval letter.  
 
Reference ID: 4299930

===PAGE 6===
 
Page 5 of 5 
 
The following language (still in draft form) has been proposed for PMRs related to pregnancy 
outcomes: 
 
Establish a worldwide Pregnancy Surveillance Program to collect and analyze information for 
a minimum of 10 years on pregnancy complications and birth outcomes in women exposed 
to Onpattro (patisiran) during pregnancy. Provide a complete protocol which includes details 
regarding how you plan to encourage patients and providers to report pregnancy exposures 
(e.g. telephone contact number and/or website in prescribing information), measures to 
ensure complete data capture regarding pregnancy outcomes and any adverse effects in 
offspring, and plans for comprehensive data analysis and yearly reporting.  
 
The finalized PMR language will be issued upon approval. 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4299930

===PAGE 7===
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is a representation of an electronic record that was signed
electronically. Following this are manifestations of any and all
electronic signatures for this electronic record.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
/s/
------------------------------------------------------------
ELISA R BRAVER
07/31/2018
KIRA N LEISHEAR
07/31/2018
WEI HUA
07/31/2018
JUDITH W ZANDER
08/02/2018
MICHAEL D NGUYEN
08/02/2018
ROBERT BALL
08/02/2018
Signature Page 1 of 1
Reference ID: 4299930

===PAGE 8===
1
****Pre-decisional Agency Information**** 
Memorandum 
Date: 
July 31, 2018 
To: 
Teresa Buracchio, M.D. 
Division of Neurology Products (DNP) 
Annie Nguyen, PharmD, Regulatory Project Manager, (DNP) 
Tracy Peters, PharmD, Associate Director for Labeling, (DNP) 
From: 
Sapna Shah, PharmD, Regulatory Review Officer 
Office of Prescription Drug Promotion (OPDP) 
CC: 
Aline Moukhtara, RN, MPH, Acting Team Leader, OPDP 
Subject: 
OPDP Labeling Comments for ONPATTROTM (patisiran) lipid complex 
injection, for intravenous use 
NDA: 
210922 
In response to the DNP consult request dated January 8, 2018, OPDP has reviewed the 
proposed product labeling (PI) for the original NDA submission for ONPATTROTM (patisiran) 
lipid complex injection, for intravenous use (Onpattro).   
PI: OPDP’s comments on the proposed labeling are based on the draft PI received by 
electronic mail from DNP (Annie Nguyen) on July 17, 2018, and are provided below. 
Carton and Container Labeling: OPDP has reviewed the attached proposed carton and 
container labeling submitted by the Sponsor to the electronic document room on May 16, 
2018, and our comments are provided below.  
Thank you for your consult.  If you have any questions, please contact Sapna Shah (240) 402-
6068 or Sapna.Shah@fda.hhs.gov. 
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION 
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research 
Office of Prescription Drug Promotion  
Reference ID: 4300059
23 Page(s) of Draft Labeling have been Withheld in Full as b4 (CCI/TS) immediately following this page

===PAGE 9===
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is a representation of an electronic record that was signed
electronically. Following this are manifestations of any and all
electronic signatures for this electronic record.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
/s/
------------------------------------------------------------
SAPNA P SHAH
07/31/2018
Signature Page 1 of 1
Reference ID: 4300059

===PAGE 10===
                                                                                                                             
 
Clinical Inspection Summary  
Date 
07/10/2018 
From 
Cara Alfaro, Pharm.D., Clinical Analyst 
Good Clinical Practice Assessment Branch  
Division of Clinical Compliance Evaluation 
Office of Scientific Investigations 
To 
Anhtu (Annie) Nguyen, Regulatory Project Manager 
Rainer Paine, M.D., Medical Officer 
Division of Neurology Products 
NDA # 
210922 
Applicant 
Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
Drug  
Patisiran 
NME 
Yes 
Proposed Indication 
Treatment of adults with hereditary transthyretin-mediated 
amyloidosis 
Consultation 
Request Date 
1/12/2018, amended 4/10/2018 to add CRO 
Summary Goal Date 6/11/2018, Extension granted to 7/11/2018 
Action Goal Date 
8/11/2018 
PDUFA Date  
8/11/2018 
 
I. 
OVERALL ASSESSMENT OF FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS 
 
The clinical sites of Drs. Adams and O’Riordan, the sponsor, Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, and 
the CRO, Medpace, were inspected in support of this NDA. Although objectionable conditions 
or practices that are significant deviations from Good Clinical Practice (GCP) were noted at the 
sponsor and CRO inspections, the findings are unlikely to significantly impact data reliability. 
 
The final compliance classification of the inspection of Drs. Adams and O’Riordan was No 
Action Indicated (NAI).  The final compliance classification of the inspections of Alnylam 
Pharmaceuticals and Medpace was Voluntary Action Indicated (VAI).  
 
NOTE: The European Medicines Agency (EMA) had received the same marketing 
authorization application. The FDA and EMA conducted joint inspections of the sponsor, 
Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, and the CRO, Medpace. Additionally, two clinical investigator sites 
enrolling subjects in Protocol ALN-TTR02-004 were inspected by EMA: Dr. Juan Buades 
Reines (Site #61) of Mallorca, Spain and Dr. Maria Gonzalez-Duarte Briseno (Site #110) of 
Mexico. The EMA inspectional findings/results for these two clinical site inspections were 
communicated to OSI. 
 
EMA identified critical inspectional findings at Site #61 including deficiencies in the informed 
consent process, in preserving the confidentiality of subjects, in the management of 
investigational product, and in source document management.  Major findings included lack of 
GCP training documentation, some ICF versions lacking signature option of legal 
representative of the subject or a witness, protocol deviations, and late reporting of SAEs. 
Reference ID: 4289165

===PAGE 11===
Page 2                                          
 
 Clinical Inspection Summary  
 
                                          
NDA #210922, patisiran                                   
 
 
 
Based on these findings, EMA considered the data from Site #61 to be suboptimal and 
recommended that these data be excluded from analyses. 
 
EMA identified protocol violations as a critical inspectional finding at Site #110 as well as a 
major finding of late SAE reporting. The EMA concluded that despite the findings, the data 
generated at Site #110 was reliable and suitable for assessment.  The findings are unlikely to 
adversely affect safety or efficacy assessments.  
 
With the exception of Site #61, the EMA inspectional findings support the validity of data as 
reported by the sponsor under this NDA. We therefore recommended that DNP consider 
conducting a sensitivity analysis excluding the data from Site #61. Exclusion of Site #61 did 
not significantly impact the primary efficacy analysis. 
 
 
II. 
BACKGROUND 
 
Patirisan injection is being developed, under NDA 210922, for the treatment of adults with 
hereditary transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis (hATTR amyloidosis). Under IND 117395, the 
sponsor was granted Orphan Drug designation (6/2012), Fast Track designation (10/2013), and 
Breakthrough Therapy designation (11/2017). The sponsor has submitted one Phase 3 study, 
ALN-TTR02-004 (APOLLO), to support the efficacy and safety of patisiran for the treatment 
of hATTR amyloidosis. 
 
Protocol ALN-TTR02-004 (APOLLO) 
 
Title: “A phase 3 multicenter, multinational, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of patisiran-LNP (ALN-TTR02) in transthyretin 
(TTR)-mediated polyneuropathy (familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy-FAP)” 
Subjects: 225 enrolled and randomized 
Sites: 43 sites in 19 countries; Western Europe (19 sites), North America (12 sites, 11 sites in 
the United States), Asia/Pacific (6 sites), Latin America (4 sites), Middle East/Central Asia (1 
site), Eastern Europe (1 site) 
Study Initiation and Completion Dates: 12/23/2013 – 8/17/2017 
Database Lock:  9/14/2017 
 
This was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in adults with hereditary 
transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis (hATTR) with polyneuropathy. The protocol consisted of a 
Screening/Baseline Phase (Day -42 to Day -1), an On-Treatment Phase (Day 0 to Week 79/80), and 
a Follow-up Phase (Weeks 81 to 86).  Eligible subjects were randomized, in a 2:1 ratio, to the 
following: 
 
 Patisiran 0.3 mg/kg by intravenous infusion every 21 days for up to 78 weeks 
 Placebo by intravenous infusion every 21 days for up to 78 weeks 
Reference ID: 4289165

===PAGE 12===
Page 3                                          
 
 Clinical Inspection Summary  
 
                                          
NDA #210922, patisiran                                   
 
 
 
 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the difference between patisiran and placebo in the change from 
baseline to 18 months in the Neurologic Impairment Score (mNIS+7).  
 
Rationale for Site Selection 
 
The clinical sites were chosen primarily based on risk ranking in the site selection tool, 
numbers of enrolled subjects, enrollment in multiple pivotal clinical studies, and prior 
inspectional history. The sponsor, Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, was also inspected.  Based on 
findings from the sponsor inspection, which indicated potential issues with overall clinical trial 
monitoring, the CRO, Medpace, was inspected. 
 
III. 
RESULTS  
 
Site #/ 
Name of CI/ 
Address 
Protocol #/ 
# of Enrolled 
Subjects
Inspection 
Dates 
Compliance 
Classification 
 
Site #50 
 
David Adams 
CHU Bicetre 
Service de neurologie adultes 
du Pr D. ADAMS 
Centre de Référence des 
Maladies Rares 
78 rue du Général Leclerc 
Le Krenlin Bicêtre cedex 
94275 
France 
ALN-TTR02-004 
 
Subjects: 22 
 
 
12-16 Mar 2018 
NAI 
Site #85 
 
William O’Riordan 
5565 Grossmont Center Drive 
Building 2, Suite 1 
La Mesa, CA 91942 
ALN-TTR02-004 
 
Subjects: 12 
 
 
5-9 Mar 2018 
NAI 
Sponsor 
 
Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, 
Inc. 
300 Third Street 
Cambridge, MA 02142 
 
ALN-TTR02-004 
 
2 – 25 Apr 2018 
 
VAI 
Reference ID: 4289165

===PAGE 13===
Page 4                                          
 
 Clinical Inspection Summary  
 
                                          
NDA #210922, patisiran                                   
 
 
 
Site #/ 
Name of CI/ 
Address 
Protocol #/ 
# of Enrolled 
Subjects 
Inspection 
Dates 
Compliance 
Classification 
 
CRO 
 
Medpace 
5375 Medpace Way 
Cincinnati, OH 45227 
 
ALN-TTR02-004 
 
16-20 Apr 2018 
VAI 
Compliance Classifications 
NAI = No Action Indicated, no deviation from regulations.  
VAI = Voluntary Action Indicated, deviation(s) from regulations.  
OAI = Official Action Indicated, significant deviations from regulations.  Data may be unreliable. 
 
 
 
 
1. David Adams, M.D. 
 
At this site for Protocol ALN-TTR02-004, 24 subjects were screened, 22 subjects were 
randomized, and 20 subjects completed the study. Two subjects discontinued the study: one 
subject withdrew due to the adverse event ischemia of the right lower limb and the other was 
withdrawn due to “physician decision” (progressive decline in the subject’s general health). 
 
Signed informed consent forms, dated prior to participation in the study, were present for all 
subjects who were screened. An audit of the study records of all subjects enrolled was 
conducted. Records reviewed included, but were not limited to, source documents, monitoring 
documents, training documents, IRB/sponsor communications, financial disclosure, test article 
accountability, inclusion/exclusion criteria, adverse event reports, protocol deviations, and 
primary efficacy data (mNIS+7). Medpace was responsible for clinical monitoring of Protocol 
ALN-TTR02-004.  Monitoring visits were conducted prior, during, and after active subject 
participation at intervals of every one to two months.  
 
Modified NIS (mNIS) +7 total scores were not available at the site for verification against data 
listings. Assessments for the mNIS + 7 are completed by blinded investigators, and the 
assessment booklets/pages are then faxed to Mayo Clinic for scoring. The FDA field 
investigator reviewed random baseline and 18 month NIS individual item scores for the 
weakness (NIS-W) and reflexes (NIS-R) components, which are part of the total score for the 
mNIS+7. The FDA field investigator also reviewed secondary efficacy data, including the 10 
meter walk and the Composite Autonomic Symptom Scores (COMPASS). No discrepancies 
were noted for these primary and secondary efficacy data. As part of a data integrity check, this 
reviewer verified NIS-W and NIS-R individual item scores by comparing source documents 
with data listings for 12 of 24 enrolled subjects. Two relatively small discrepancies were noted 
for NIS-W data (refer to Alnylam inspection summary for further details regarding data 
integrity check and data discrepancies). 
 
Reference ID: 4289165

===PAGE 14===
Page 5                                          
 
 Clinical Inspection Summary  
 
                                          
NDA #210922, patisiran                                   
 
 
 
There was no evidence of under-reporting of adverse events. The FDA field investigator noted 
that some SAEs were not reported within 24 hours from the time that site personnel first 
learned of the event, as required in the protocol. The study coordinator stated that the Medpace 
study monitor initially specified that SAEs related to disease progression should not be 
reported. During the sponsor inspection, it was noted that 19 of 33 SAEs occurring at this site 
were reported late and that 12 of those were reported at least one year after occurrence.  
However, after May 2016, the site began reporting all SAEs within the 24-hour timeframe.  
 
Reviewer Comments: Two relatively small discrepancies were noted in NIS-W data for Subject 
#
. It is unlikely that these discrepancies would impact the overall efficacy analyses 
(refer to discussion in Alnylam inspection summary). SAEs were reported late, email 
communications included with the EIR verify that the Medpace monitor had instructed the site 
not to report SAEs that were related to disease progression (see further discussion of late SAE 
reporting in Alnylam and Medpace inspection summaries). Though reported late, there is no 
evidence of unreported SAEs. These SAEs were related to disease progression and are 
considered unlikely to have impacted subject safety unless these SAEs were related to the 
drug’s lack of efficacy in treating the disease. 
 
 
2. William O’Riordan, M.D. 
 
At this site for Protocol ALN-TTR02-004, 22 subjects were screened, 12 subjects were 
randomized, and 10 subjects completed the study. Two subjects discontinued the study due to 
SAEs: sudden cardiac death occurring approximately one year after randomization to patisiran 
(Subject #
) and acute renal failure in a subject randomized to placebo (Subject #
). 
 
Signed informed consent forms, dated prior to participation in the study, were present for all 
subjects who were screened. An audit of the study records of all subjects enrolled was 
conducted. Records reviewed included, but were not limited to, source documents, monitoring 
documents, study personnel training, IRB/sponsor communications, financial disclosure, test 
article storage and accountability, inclusion/exclusion criteria, adverse event reports, protocol 
deviations, and primary efficacy data (mNIS+7). Medpace was responsible for clinical 
monitoring of Protocol ALN-TTR02-004.  Monitoring visits were conducted prior, during, and 
after active subject participation.at intervals of every one to two months. 
 
There was no evidence of under-reporting of adverse events. As part of a data integrity check, 
this reviewer verified NIS-W and NIS-R individual item scores by comparing source 
documents with data listings for 11 of 12 enrolled subjects (source documents for efficacy for 
Subject #
 not available). No discrepancies were noted (refer to Alnylam inspection 
summary for further details regarding data integrity check). 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4289165
(b) (6)
(b) (6)
(b) (6)
(b) (6)

===PAGE 15===
Page 6                                          
 
 Clinical Inspection Summary  
 
                                          
NDA #210922, patisiran                                   
 
 
 
3. Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
 
This was a joint inspection conducted by FDA and EMA. The inspection covered sponsor 
practices related to Protocol ALN-TTR02-004 and focused on six clinical investigator sites:  #s 
50, 51, 61, 81, 90, and 91.   
 
Records reviewed included, but were not limited to, organizations charts, SOPs, monitoring 
plans and reports, transfer of responsibilities, correspondence, training records, Form FDA 
1572s, financial disclosure forms, Clinical Operations Plans, eCRFs, protocol deviations, 
serious adverse events, and test article accountability. Study specific records were reviewed for 
50% of subjects enrolled at each of the six clinical investigator sites selected. 
 
Clinical monitoring and data management for Protocol ALN-TTR02-004 was conducted by the 
CRO, Medpace. (Medpace subcontracted three regional CROs for monitoring services in 
Portugal, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Turkey, and Japan). 
 performed co-
monitoring visits on behalf of the sponsor, and an independent consultant, 
 performed 
as-needed clinical site audits. 
 was the central laboratory for neurological 
impairment assessment (the primary efficacy endpoint), including staff training and 
certification. 
 
A Form FDA 483 was issued at the conclusion of the inspection.  Inspection observations 
included the use of electronic records that were not 21 CFR Part 11 compliant and inadequate 
study oversight, as outlined below. 
 
Electronic Records 
 
From January 2014 to August 2016, data captured by 
 for calculating the primary 
endpoint was recorded in REDCap EDC and manipulated in Microsoft Excel. The REDCap 
EDC was not Part 11 compliant for electronic signatures. The information in Excel does not 
include tracked changes, version controls, or other measures to prevent potential modification 
or deletion of data. REDCap data were transferred into the Part 11 compliant ClinTrak EDC in 
August 2016, but audit trails could not be transferred into ClinTrak and were not otherwise 
recoverable. Based on the vendor audits performed for the sponsor in October 2013 and 2015, 
the sponsor was aware that 
 was using systems that were not Part 11 compliant.  
 
Reviewer Comments: The sponsor acknowledged the inspectional findings and the 
implementation of their CAPAs appear acceptable to prevent future recurrence of this finding. 
 
Due to the use of electronic databases that were not Part 11 compliant to handle the primary 
efficacy endpoint data for much of the study, OSI requested source data from the sponsor to 
verify primary efficacy endpoint data. Specifically, OSI requested these source data for 6 sites 
identified in the Alnylam and Medpace inspections as having some continuing compliance 
issues (Sites 50, 51, 61, 81, 85, and 87). The sponsor provided a USB 3.0 device containing 
certified electronic copies of the source records that were used to derive the mNIS+7 scores, 
the primary efficacy endpoint. Due to time constraints, only the NIS-W and NIS-R individual 
item scores were verified. The NIS-W and NIS-R are components of the overall mNIS+7.  Per 
Reference ID: 4289165
(b) (4)
(b) (4)
(b) (4)
(b) (4)
(b) (4)

===PAGE 16===
Page 7                                          
 
 Clinical Inspection Summary  
 
                                          
NDA #210922, patisiran                                   
 
 
 
protocol, the NIS-W and NIS-R scores were assessed at baseline, Month 9, and Month 18, with 
two assessments for each time point.  NIS-W and NIS-R scores were checked for all 17 subjects 
enrolled at Sites 51, 61, 81, and 87; 11 of 12 subjects enrolled at Site 85 (data for one subject 
was not included in sponsor submission); and 12 of 24 subjects enrolled at Site 50. Of note, 
Sites #s 50 and 85 were the clinical sites that OSI inspected for this NDA submission. 
 
In reviewing NIS-W and NIS-R individual item scores for baseline, Month 9, and Month 18, 
there were three instances of data discrepancies for the NIS-W when comparing the source 
data to the data listings (refer to Table 1). Note that the discrepancies listed were noted only 
for one of two assessments performed for each timepoint. 
 
Table 1.  Discrepancies in NIS-W Data During Data Verification 
Subject 
Treatment Arm 
Timepoint 
NIS-W 
Source Data 
Data Listing 
Patisiran 
Baseline 
33 
32.5 
Placebo 
Baseline 
62.5 
66.5 
Placebo 
Month 18 
73 
69 
 
The most significant data discrepancy noted was for Subject #
. Since two assessments 
were performed for every timepoint, the mean of the two assessments for baseline were 65.5 
(source) vs. 67.5 (data listing) and for Month 18 were 70.5 (source) vs. 68.5 (data listing). For 
this subject, the mean change from baseline to Month 18 would be 5 (source) vs. 1 (data 
listing); both are in the direction of worsening. Since these appear to be small differences, and 
the NIS-W is only one component of the mNIS+7, it is unlikely that this discrepancy would 
impact the overall efficacy analyses. 
 
Study Oversight 
 
Based on the sponsor records, the field investigator noted some continuing noncompliance of 
clinical investigators at Site #s 61, 81, and 91. Examples of noncompliance included laboratory 
reports not signed by the clinical investigator, missing laboratory reports, incomplete 
documentation of adverse events in CRFs, late SAE reporting, and lack of source 
documentation. Alnylam did not ensure proper follow up at clinical sites to mitigate continued 
noncompliance.  
 
The CRO, Medpace, was responsible for study monitoring. The first subject was enrolled in 
December 2013. In June 2014, Alnylam hired 
 to perform co-
monitoring. Alnylam also hired an independent consultant, 
, to perform as-needed site 
audits. Despite monitoring by Medpace, co-monitoring, and audit activities, issues with 
noncompliance continued and were not resolved in a timely manner.   
 
Reviewer Comments: Protocol ALN-TTR02-004 was initiated in 12/2013 and completed in 
8/2017. It is unclear when Alnylam became aware of inadequate monitoring of clinical sites 
and/or continuing noncompliance of clinical investigators. 
Consulting was hired in June 
2014 to conduct co-monitoring of clinical sites. For the sites with continuing noncompliance 
(#s 61, 81, 91) co-monitoring visits were conducted between 3/2015 and 11/2016, with three 
Reference ID: 4289165
(b) (6)
(b) (6)
(b) (4)
(b) (4)
(b) (4)

===PAGE 17===
Page 8                                          
 
 Clinical Inspection Summary  
 
                                          
NDA #210922, patisiran                                   
 
 
 
co-monitoring visits for Site 091 and two co-monitoring visits for Site 081. It appears that 
issues identified in monitoring visits were eventually resolved, though some took more than one 
year for resolution. No study sites enrolling subjects in this study were terminated  
 
As for the late SAE reporting, the protocol stated that adverse events related to disease 
progression should not be reported as adverse events. However, the protocol also outlined the 
standard definition of a SAE, which included hospitalization, requiring them to be reported 
within 24 hours from the time that site personnel first learned of the event. This caused 
confusion with some CRAs and clinical sites (number not stated), who thought that SAEs 
related to disease progression did not have to be reported. It is unknown when Medpace and 
Alynylam became aware of this SAE reporting issue. This issue does not appear to have been 
addressed until June 2016 when an email was sent from Clinical Trial Management Medpace 
to Medpace CRAs to advise them that SAEs should be reported regardless of relationship to 
disease progression. Alnylam stated that all of these SAEs were captured and are in the NDA 
submission.   
 
Potential Unblinding Event (also see Medpace inspection summary) 
 
Although not listed on the Form FDA 483 as an inspectional finding, the field investigator 
noted an issue of potential study unblinding.  
 
Urine and plasma PK concentration results were blinded data sources for Protocol ALN-
TTR02-004. Due to an error by 
 the laboratory vendor, urine PK concentrations for 
all 225 subjects were transferred to Medpace (the CRO), which subsequently transferred the 
data to Alnylam and 
 (the statistics vendor).  
 
Reviewer Comments: This reviewer agrees with the sponsor’s assessment that the urine PK 
results would unlikely unblind the study since 98% of samples were below the lower limit of 
quantitation. We also conferred with the OCP reviewer for this application, who agreed that, 
based on the types and levels of metabolites found in the urine, the urine PK results should not 
lead to unblinding. 
 
4. Medpace 
 
This was a joint inspection conducted by FDA and EMA. The inspection covered CRO 
practices related to Protocol ALN-TTR02-004 and focused on the same six clinical investigator 
sites as the Alnylam inspection:  #s 50, 51, 61, 81, 90, and 91. 
 
Records reviewed included, but were not limited to, organizations charts, SOPs, monitoring 
plans and reports, transfer of responsibilities, correspondence, training records, Clinical 
Operations Plans, meeting minutes, Safety Plans, eCRFs, protocol deviations, serious adverse 
events. Study specific records were reviewed for 50% of subjects enrolled at each of the six 
clinical investigator sites selected. 
 
A Form FDA 483 was issued at the conclusion of the inspection.   Inspection observations 
included failure to ensure proper monitoring of the study, including potential unblinding of the 
Reference ID: 4289165
(b) (4)
(b) (4)

===PAGE 18===
Page 9                                          
 
 Clinical Inspection Summary  
 
                                          
NDA #210922, patisiran                                   
 
 
 
study, as outlined below. 
 
Clinical Monitoring 
 
As discussed in the Alnylam inspection summary, there was continued noncompliance of 
clinical investigators at Sites 61, 81, and 91. Examples of noncompliance included laboratory 
reports not signed by clinical investigator, missing laboratory reports, incomplete 
documentation of adverse events in CRFs, late SAE reporting, and lack of source 
documentation. For Site 50, 19 of 33 (57%) SAEs were reported late; 12 of those were reported 
at least one year after occurrence. Medpace performed frequent monitoring visits at these sites 
and documented continuing noncompliance with the protocol. For two of these sites, 81 and 
91, Site Corrective Action Plans were implemented to improve site compliance. However, 
noncompliance continued, and it is not clear when, or if, these issues were escalated to the 
sponsor in a timely manner. 
 
As discussed in the Alnylam inspection summary, Alnylam hired 
 to perform 
co-monitoring activities and 
 to perform periodic audits of the clinical sites. These visits 
also documented continued noncompliance. At Site 61, for example, an audit in February 2017 
noted the critical finding that “electronic medical records were not contemporaneous with the 
date of subject visits, lacked detail, and the source of the data entered post visits could not be 
determined.” This same audit report, however, also concludes with an overall impression that 
the clinical investigator conducted the study in a satisfactory manner. 
 
Reviewer Comments: Issues of continuing noncompliance of clinical investigators at Sites 61, 
81, and 91 was problematic. Medpace appeared to document the issues, but many remained 
unresolved at multiple follow-up monitoring visits, co-monitoring visits, and audits. For some 
sites, Site Corrective Action Plans were implemented to address continuing issues but did not 
appear to be effective. 
 
The issue of late reporting of SAEs is discussed in the Alnylam inspection summary. Medpace 
CRAs were advising some sites (e.g. Site 50) not to report SAEs if they were related to 
progression of the disease. It is unclear whether Medpace did not appropriately train the CRAs 
regarding SAE reporting or if they were not aware that these events were not being reported.  
This issue should have been identified and addressed much earlier. Although all SAE data 
were ultimately included in the NDA submission, these safety data may not have been available 
to the Data Monitoring Committee in real time in order to monitor the progress of the clinical 
study and the safety of the study participants. 
 
Because of the critical finding from the audit of Site 61, in conjunction with findings from the 
EMA inspection of this site, we had recommended to the review division to perform a 
sensitivity analysis excluding data from this site. 
 
Potential Unblinding Event 
 
As discussed in the Alnylam inspection summary, urine and plasma PK concentration results 
were blinded data sources for Protocol ALN-TTR02-004. Due to an error by 
 the 
Reference ID: 4289165
(b) (4)
(b) (4)
(b) (4)

===PAGE 19===
Page 10                                          
 
 Clinical Inspection Summary  
 
                                          
NDA #210922, patisiran                                   
 
 
 
laboratory vendor, urine PK concentrations for all 225 subjects were transferred to Medpace 
(the CRO), which subsequently transferred the data to Alnylam and 
(the statistics 
vendor). This reviewer and the OCP reviewer for this application agreed that, based on the 
types and levels of metabolites found in the urine, the urine PK results should not lead to 
unblinding. 
 
Reviewer Comments: Since Medpace had responsibility for data management, it seems 
reasonable that they should have had some responsibility to ensure that the data transfer files 
from 
did not contain unblinded data. However, this expectation may not have been 
outlined in the Data Transfer Agreement. Although Medpace did not take any responsibility for 
this inspectional finding, according to information from Alnylam, Medpace has instituted 
additional QC steps to address this finding.  
 
5. EMA Findings 
 
The European Medicines Agency (EMA) had received the same marketing authorization 
application.  The FDA and EMA conducted joint inspections of the sponsor, Alnylam 
Pharmaceuticals, and the CRO, Medpace, as noted above.  The EMA selected two clinical sites 
enrolling subjects in Protocol ALN-TTR02-004 to inspect independently:  Dr. Juan Buades 
Reines (Site #61/Spain) and Dr. Maria Gonzalez-Duarte Briseno (Site #110/Mexico). The 
EMA inspectional findings/results were communicated to OSI.  The EMA summarized the 
inspections noting that there were critical, major and minor findings.  
 
The inspectional findings for Site #61 included several critical and major findings.  Critical 
findings included deficiencies in the informed consent process, in preserving the 
confidentiality of subjects, in the management of investigational product, and in source 
document management.  Major findings included lack of GCP training documentation, some 
ICF versions lacking signature option of legal representative of the subject or a witness, 
protocol deviations, and late reporting of SAEs. Based on these findings, EMA considered the 
data from Site #61 to be suboptimal and recommended that these data be excluded from 
analyses. 
 
The inspectional findings for Site #110 included a critical finding of protocol violations and a 
major finding of late SAE reporting. The EMA concluded that despite the findings, the data 
generated at Site #110 was reliable and suitable for assessment.  The findings are unlikely to 
adversely affect safety or efficacy assessments.  
 
With the exception of Site #61, the EMA inspectional findings support the validity of data as 
reported by the sponsor under this NDA. We therefore recommended that DNP consider 
conducting a sensitivity analysis excluding the data from Site #61.  Exclusion of Site #61 did 
not significantly impact the primary efficacy analysis. 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4289165
(b) (4)
(b) (4)

===PAGE 20===
Page 11                                          
 
 Clinical Inspection Summary  
 
                                          
NDA #210922, patisiran                                   
 
 
 
 
{See appended electronic signature page} 
 
Cara Alfaro, Pharm.D. 
Clinical Analyst 
Good Clinical Practice Assessment Branch 
Division of Clinical Compliance Evaluation 
Office of Scientific Investigations 
 
CONCURRENCE: 
 
{See appended electronic signature page} 
 
 
 
Phillip Kronstein, M.D. 
Team Leader  
Good Clinical Practice Assessment Branch 
Division of Clinical Compliance Evaluation 
Office of Scientific Investigations 
 
 
CONCURRENCE: 
 
    
 
{See appended electronic signature page} 
 
 Kassa Ayalew, M.D., M.P.H 
 
 Branch Chief 
 Good Clinical Practice Assessment Branch  
 Division of Clinical Compliance Evaluation 
 Office of Scientific Investigations 
 
 
 
cc:  
 
Central Document Room/NDA #210922 
DNP/Division Director/Billy Dunn 
DNP/Medical Team Leader/Nicholas Kozauer 
DNP/Medical Officer/Rainer Paine 
DNP/Project Manager/Anhtu (Annie) Nguyen 
OSI/Office Director/David Burrow 
OSI/DCCE/ Division Director/Ni Khin 
OSI/DCCE/GCPAB/Branch Chief/Kassa Ayalew 
OSI/DCCE/GCPAB/Team Leader/Phillip Kronstein 
OSI/DCCE/GCPAB/Reviewer/Cara Alfaro  
OSI/ GCPAB Program Analyst/Yolanda Patague 
OSI/Database Project Manager/Dana Walters 
Reference ID: 4289165

===PAGE 21===
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is a representation of an electronic record that was signed
electronically. Following this are manifestations of any and all
electronic signatures for this electronic record.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
/s/
------------------------------------------------------------
CARA L ALFARO
07/10/2018
PHILLIP D KRONSTEIN
07/10/2018
KASSA AYALEW
07/10/2018
Signature Page 1 of 1
Reference ID: 4289165

===PAGE 22===
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research
Office of Biotechnology Products
MEMORANDUM OF REVIEW
STN:
NDA 210922
Subject:
Immunogenicity assessment for original 
application. 
RECEIPT DATE:
REVIEW DATE:
7/2/2018
PRIMARY REVIEWER: 
Susan Kirshner, Ph.D.
APPLICANT: 
Alnylam Pharmaceuticals Inc.
PRODUCT: 
Patiseran (TTR02, patisiran-lnp)
INDICATION: 
Treatment of adults with hereditary transthyretin-
mediated amyloidosis.
I. SUMMARY BASIS OF RECOMMENDATION:
a. Recommendation:
Appropriate validation studies were performed to establish the suitability of the assay. 
Overall the assay is suitable for it’s intended purpose. Depending on the actual 
concentration of free PEG in patient serum samples effective assay sensitivity may 
range from 250 – 1000 ng/ml.
II. REVIEW OF SUBMISSION:
Reviewer note: The FDA Draft Guidance for Industry Assay Development and Validation 
for Immunogenicity Testing of Therapeutic Protein Products (2016) will be referred to as 
FDA Guidance in this memo. 
Documents Reviewed:
303458 – Validation of an Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) for the 
detection of Anti-PEG IgG/IgM Antibodies Present in Human Serum – contains original 
validation exercise plus 4 amendments.
1. Background: 
TTR02, patisiran-lnp, is a pegylated lipid nanoparticle containing a double stranded 
siRNA against the untranslated region of wild-type and mutant transthyretin. Patisiran-
LNP is being developed for the treatment of adults with hereditary transthyretin-mediated 
amyloidosis.
Reference ID: 4286048

===PAGE 23===
Patisiran-LNP is comprised of patsiran (2 mg/ml), a double stranded siRNA, formulated 
as a nanoparticle using the lipid excipients DLin-MC3-DMA, DSPC, cholesterol, and 
PEG2000-C-DMG. To address immunogenicity concerns the company was advised by 
FDA’s clinical pharmacology group to develop an assay to assess for anti-PEG 
antibodies. 
This memo provides OBP’s evaluation of the ELISA used by the Sponsor to detect anti-
PEG IgG and IgM in human serum. 
Controls:
Plates were coated with PEG2000-C-DMG
Drug tolerance material – Dlin-MC3-DMA lot X076 – component of the pegylated 
nanoparticle lipid (LNP); ALN-TTR02 lot IC118 and XAP13001 – an LNP with siRNA 
against transthyretin, Patisiran-LNP; ALN-18328 lot A05AC12001N – patisiran (siRNA 
unformulated); Tafamidis (ALY-SAN-086) lot RRN/1104 – small molecule drug used to 
delay the loss of peripheral nerve function in adults with familial amyloid polyneuropathy 
by stabilizing transthyretin.
Positive control: Anti-PEG methoxy group Rabbit Monoclonal Antibodies (Epitomics 
catalog number 2061-1) concentration 0.97 mg/ml neat lot YI101708PS and 0.803 mg/ml 
lot GR175680-15). This Ab can detect linear and branched PEG molecules.
Low low positive control (LLPC) 200 ng/ml; LPC 250 ng/ml; MPC 1000 ng/ml and HPC 
2000 ng/ml
Ig positive control: Human IgG whole molecule (Rockland) and Human IgM (myeloma) 
whole molecule (Rockland)
Secondary reagents: Goat anti-human IgG+M (H+L) HRP (Jackson ImmunoResearch 
Laboratory); Goat anti-rabbit IgG-HRP (Fc fragment specific)
Matrices: Pooled Normal Human Serum (Bioreclamation; Individual lots of Normal 
Human Serum (Bioreclamation)
Summary Description of the Method:
Plates are coated (10 ug/well) with PEG2000-C-DMG. Serum samples diluted 1/40 
(Blocker Casein in PBS) are added to the plate. Captured anti-PEG antibodies are 
detected with horseradish peroxidase (HRP) conjugated goat anti-human IgM+IgG. After 
addition of trimethylbenzidine (TMB) absorbance (A450nm) is determined.
Method validation:
Reviewer note: The Table below was copied from the Sponsor’s submission, 303458: 
Validation of an Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) for the detection of Anti-
PEG IgG/IgM Antibodies Present in Human Serum pg 427 – 430.
Reference ID: 4286048

===PAGE 24===
Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research
Office of Biotechnology Products
Reviewer comments on SCP: This approach is 
consistent with FDA Guidance to use results from 
at least 2 analysts on at least 3 days for cut point 
determination.  Cut point determination included 
appropriate removal of outliers and use of the 5% 
false positive rate as recommended by FDA 
Guidance. The cut point determination results 
were reviewed and the cut point is acceptable.
Reviewer comments on CCP: The Sponsor’s 
approach is acceptable because using the lower 
CCP is a more conservative approach to 
identifying ADA positive serum samples. Cut 
point determination included appropriate removal 
of outliers and use of a 1% false positive rate as 
recommended by FDA Guidance. The assay cut 
point performed acceptably because the LPC was 
always positive and the negative control negative. 
The LPC is 250ng/ml, which is within the 
recommended sensitivity range of FDA Guidance 
(2009) available in 2012 when this assay was 
validated.
Reference ID: 4286048

===PAGE 25===
Reviewer comment on precision: Assay precision 
is within industry standard for this type of assay 
and is acceptable. The precision of blank test 
sample was noted in the report to be 20.9% and is 
acceptable.
Reviewer comment on sensitivity: The assay 
consistently detected antibodies at 250 ng/ml 
which is below the 2009 FDA Guidance 
recommendation of 500 ng/ml. The ADA are to 
PEG, which is not endogenous to humans and so 
there is low risk of patients developing deficiency 
syndromes. Therefore, the sensitivity of the assay 
is acceptable.
Reviewer comment on specificity: The assay does 
not non-specifically provide signal. The 
confirmatory cut point study indicates that the 
assay can specifically detect positive control. 
Assay specificity is acceptable.  
Reviewer comment on selectivity: Testing of 
selectivity could have been more robust with the 
sponsor investigating other interfering matrix 
factors such as lipids. However, these results 
support a conclusion that the assay can detect the 
analyte of interest in the test article matrix. No 
further action required.
Reference ID: 4286048

===PAGE 26===
Reviewer comment on precision of titers: 
Precision of titers is consistent with FDA 
Guidance and is acceptable.
Reviewer comment on stability: Results of the 
stability studies show that that PCs are suitable 
for use in the assay. In amendment 4 of the assay 
validation long term stability data were updated 
to include stability data through 4.2 years. 
Reference ID: 4286048

===PAGE 27===
From amendments 1 and 2
Reviewer comments on PEG interference: 
According to the PK reports, which needs to be 
confirmed by the Clinical Pharmacology 
reviewer, trough levels of PEG-2000-C-DMG are 
0.024 ug/ml. Therefore, trough levels are 
expected to be higher than drug tolerance at 250 
ng/ml antibody but lower than drug tolerance at 
1000 ng/ml antibody (MPC). Therefore, the 
effective sensitivity of the assay is between 250 
and 1000 ng/m in the presence of free PEG. Free 
PEG is expected to interfere with the assay 
because it directly competes for binding with the 
positive controls. 
Reference ID: 4286048

===PAGE 28===
From Amendment 3
Reviewer comment: MC3 did not interfere with 
ADA detection. Assessment of MC3 is relevant 
because it is a component of Patisiran-LNP. 
Reference ID: 4286048

===PAGE 29===
From Amendment 3
Reviewer comment: ALN-TTR02 is another name 
for Patisiran-LNP and does not interfere with the 
detection of the low positive control at 0.05 ug/ml. 
According to the Sponsor trough concentrations 
of Patisiran-LNP are 0.021 ug/ml with 
interpatient variability of 210%. Therefore, the 
effective sensitivity of the assay may be slightly 
worse than 250 ng/ml.
Reference ID: 4286048

===PAGE 30===
From Amendment 3
Reviewer comment on ALN-18328 interference: 
ALN-18328 is unformulated patisiran. Assessment 
of ALN-18328 interference is relevant because it 
is a component of Patisiran-LNP. ALN-18328 did 
not interfere with detection of anti-PEG 
antibodies.
From Amendment 3
Reviewer comment on Tafamidis interference: 
Tafamidis is a small molecule drug used to delay 
loss of peripheral nerve function in adults with 
familial amyloid polyneuropathy. Assessment of 
Tafamidis interference is relevant because it may 
be a component of serum samples from Patisiran-
LNP treated subjects. Tafamidis did not interfere 
with detection of anti-PEG antibodies.
Reference ID: 4286048
APPEARS THIS WAY ON ORIGINAL

===PAGE 31===
Reviewer comment: I concur there is no prozone 
effect.
Reference ID: 4286048

===PAGE 32===
III. REVIEWER CONCLUSIONS:
Appropriate validation studies were performed to establish the suitability of the assay. Overall the assay is suitable for it’s intended 
purpose. Depending on the actual concentration of free PEG in patient serum samples effective assay sensitivity may range from 
250 – 1000 ng/ml. 
Reveiwer comment on titer precision: Titer 
precision is consistent with FDA expectations of 
±one twofold dilution and is acceptable.
Reference ID: 4286048

===PAGE 33===
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is a representation of an electronic record that was signed
electronically. Following this are manifestations of any and all
electronic signatures for this electronic record.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
/s/
------------------------------------------------------------
SUSAN L KIRSHNER
07/02/2018
Signature Page 1 of 1
Reference ID: 4286048

===PAGE 34===
1
MEMORANDUM 
REVIEW OF REVISED LABEL AND LABELING
Division of Medication Error Prevention and Analysis (DMEPA) 
Office of Medication Error Prevention and Risk Management (OMEPRM)
Office of Surveillance and Epidemiology (OSE)
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER)
Date of This Memorandum:
June 8, 2018
Requesting Office or Division:
Division of Neurology Products (DNP)
Application Type and Number:
NDA 210922
Product Name and Strength:
Onpattro***a (patisiran) lipid complex injection
10 mg/5 mL (2 mg/mL)
Applicant/Sponsor Name:
Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc
FDA Received Date:
May 16, 2018
OSE RCM #:
2017-2349-1
DMEPA Safety Evaluator:
Chad Morris, PharmD, MPH
DMEPA Team Leader:
Lolita White, PharmD
1
PURPOSE OF MEMORANDUM
The Division of Neurology (DNP) requested that we review the revised trade and sample carton 
labeling and container labels for Onpattro*** (Appendix A) to determine they are acceptable 
from a medication error perspective.  The revisions are in response to recommendations that 
we made during a previous label and labeling review.b 
2
ASSESSMENT
We reviewed the revised trade and sample carton labeling and container labels for 
Onpattro***.  In addition to the revisions DMEPA recommended, we note 4 other revisions 
were made to the carton and or container labels, and include the revision of the dosage form to 
lipid complex injection, addition of placeholders for the lot number and expiration date, 
addition of component numbers and 2D barcodes, and one spelling correction.  
a ***The proposed proprietary name, Onpattro, was conditionally approved in OSE RCM: 2017-19668675 (NDA 
210922) on 03/09/2018.
b Morris, C. Label and Labeling Review for Onpattro (NDA 210922). Silver Spring (MD): FDA, CDER, OSE, DMEPA 
(US); 2018 APR 06. RCM No.: 2017-2349.
Reference ID: 4275184

===PAGE 35===
2
As part of our review of the revised labels and labeling, we considered whether the 
aforementioned revisions would impact the safe use of the product.  We did not identify new 
vulnerabilities that may increase the risk for medication errors.  
3
CONCLUSION
The revised trade and sample carton labeling and container labels for Onpattro*** are 
acceptable from a medication error perspective.  We have no further recommendations at this 
time.
Reference ID: 4275184
2 Page(s) of Draft Labeling have been Withheld in Full as b4 (CCI/TS) immediately 
following this page

===PAGE 36===
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is a representation of an electronic record that was signed
electronically and this page is the manifestation of the electronic
signature.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
/s/
------------------------------------------------------------
JOHN C MORRIS
06/08/2018
LOLITA G WHITE
06/08/2018
Reference ID: 4275184

===PAGE 37===
1
LABEL AND LABELING REVIEW
Division of Medication Error Prevention and Analysis (DMEPA) 
Office of Medication Error Prevention and Risk Management (OMEPRM)
Office of Surveillance and Epidemiology (OSE)
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER)
*** This document contains proprietary information that cannot be released to the public***
Date of This Review:
April 6, 2018
Requesting Office or Division:
Division of Neurology Products (DNP)
Application Type and Number:
NDA 210922
Product Name and Strength:
Onpattro***a (patisiran) injection
10 mg/5 mL (2 mg/mL)
Product Type:
Single ingredient product
Rx or OTC:
Rx
Applicant/Sponsor Name:
Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Submission Date:
December 11, 2017
OSE RCM #:
2017-2349
DMEPA Safety Evaluator:
Chad Morris, PharmD, MPH
DMEPA Team Leader:
Lolita White, PharmD
a ***The proposed proprietary name, Onpattro, was conditionally approved in OSE RCM: 2016-12105251 (IND 
117395) on 06/16/2017.
Reference ID: 4245719
Reference ID: 4305519

===PAGE 38===
2
1
REASON FOR REVIEW
This review evaluates the proposed trade and sample carton labeling and container labels, and 
prescribing information for Onpattro*** (patisiran) injection (NDA 210922) for areas of 
vulnerability that may increase the risk for medication errors.  This review is written in response 
to a request from the Division of Neurology Products.
2
MATERIALS REVIEWED 
We considered the materials listed in Table 1 for this review.  The Appendices provide the 
methods and results for each material reviewed.  
Table 1.  Materials Considered for this Label and Labeling Review
Material Reviewed
Appendix Section 
(for Methods and Results)
Product Information/Prescribing Information
A
Previous DMEPA Reviews
B
Human Factors Study 
C (N/A)
ISMP Newsletters
D (N/A)
FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS)*
E (N/A)
Other 
F (N/A)
Labels and Labeling
G
N/A=not applicable for this review
*We do not typically search FAERS for our label and labeling reviews unless we are aware of 
medication errors through our routine postmarket safety surveillance
3
OVERALL ASSESSMENT OF THE MATERIALS REVIEWED
Our review of the proposed carton labeling and container labels, and prescribing information 
identified the following areas that can be improved to decrease risk of medication error:
Carton labeling and container labels

The usual dose statement is not consistent with 21 CFR 201.55.

The format of the expiration date is not clearly defined, which may lead to a degraded 
drug product medication error. 
Prescribing Information

Section 2.1 contains the error prone symbol “≥,” which may increase the risk for wrong 
dose medication errors.

The recommended dose is presented with inconsistent units of measure, which may 
increase the risk for wrong dose medication errors.  
4
CONCLUSION & RECOMMENDATIONS
We identified areas of the proposed carton labeling and container labels, and prescribing 
information that can be improved to reduce the potential for confusion and increase the 
Reference ID: 4245719
Reference ID: 4305519

===PAGE 39===
3
prominence, clarity, and readability of important product information to mitigate the potential 
for medication errors and promote the safe use of Onpattro***.  We provide recommendations 
in Sections 4.1 and 4.2 to address our concerns.  We advise these recommendations are 
implemented prior to the approval of this NDA.
4.1 RECOMMENDATIONS FOR THE DIVISION OF NEUROLOGY PRODUCTS
Prescribing Information

In Section 2.1 the error prone symbol “≥” is used, which may increase the risk for wrong 
dose medication errors.  We recommend replacing the symbol “≥” with its intended 
meaning to prevent misinterpretation and confusion.


In the HPI and Section 2.1 the units for the recommended dose is expressed as mg/kg, 
but in Section 2.3 the dosing units are expressed as 
/kg.  This may increase the risk for 
wrong dose medication errors.  We recommend you consider changing the following 
two statement from: 
o
“Calculate the required 
 of ONPATTRO based on the recommended 
weight-based dosage 
 [see 
Dosage and Administration (2.1)]” 
o
Withdraw the entire contents of one of more vials into a single sterile syringe.
to read: 
o
“Calculate the required dose of ONPATTRO based on the recommended weight-
based dosage [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]”. 
o
Withdraw the entire contents of one of more vials into a single sterile syringe 
 
.
4.2
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR ALNYLAM
We recommend the following be implemented prior to approval of this NDA: 
Carton labeling and container labels
As currently presented:

The usual dose statement does not comply with 21 CFR 201.55.  We recommend you 
update your usual dose statement to read “See package insert for dosage and 
administration information.”

The format for the expiration date is not defined. To minimize confusion and reduce the 
risk for deteriorated drug medication errors, identify the format you intend to use.  We 
recommend using a format like either:
DDMMMYYYY (e.g., 31JAN2013)
MMMYYYY (e.g., JAN2013)
YYYY-MMM-DD (e.g., 2013-JAN-31)
YYYY-MM-DD (e.g., 2013-01-31) 
Reference ID: 4245719
Reference ID: 4305519
(b) (4)
(b) (4)
(b) 
(4)
(b) (4)

===PAGE 40===
4
APPENDICES:  METHODS & RESULTS FOR EACH MATERIALS REVIEWED 
APPENDIX A. PRODUCT INFORMATION/PRESCRIBING INFORMATION
Table 2 presents relevant product information for Onpattro*** that Alnylam submitted on 
December 11, 2017. 
Table 2. Relevant Product Information for Onpattro***
Initial Approval Date
N/A
Active Ingredient
patisiran
Indication 
treatment of adults with hereditary transthyretin-
mediated amyloidosis
Route of Administration
IV infusion
Dosage Form
injection
Strength
10 mg/5 mL (2 mg/mL)
Dose and Frequency
0.3 mg/kg every 3 weeks by intravenous infusion over 
approximately 80 minutes. For patients weighing ≥100 kg 
the recommended dose is 30 mg
How Supplied
Preservative-free, Single use, 5 mL vial per carton
Storage
Store at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F). Do not freeze. Discard 
vial if it has been frozen.
If refrigeration is not available, ONPATTRO can be stored 
at room temperature up to 25°C (up to 77°F) for up to 14 
days.
The diluted solution should be administered immediately 
after preparation. If not used immediately, store in the 
infusion bag at room temperature (up to 30°C [86°F]) for 
up to hours (including infusion time). Do not freeze.
Container Closure
Glass vial
Reference ID: 4245719
Reference ID: 4305519
(b) 
(4)

===PAGE 41===
5
APPENDIX B. PREVIOUS DMEPA REVIEWS
On December 12, 2017, we searched DMEPA’s previous reviews using the terms, Onpattro and 
patisiran. Our search did not identify any previous reviews.
Reference ID: 4245719
Reference ID: 4305519

===PAGE 42===
6
APPENDIX G. LABELS AND LABELING 
G.1
List of Labels and Labeling Reviewed
Using the principles of human factors and Failure Mode and Effects Analysis,b along with 
postmarket medication error data, we reviewed the following Onpattro*** labels and labeling 
submitted by Alnylam on December 11, 2017.

Trade Carton labeling

Trade Container label

Sample Carton labeling

Sample Container label

Prescribing Information (Image not shown)
b Institute for Healthcare Improvement (IHI).  Failure Modes and Effects Analysis.  Boston. IHI:2004. 
Reference ID: 4245719
Reference ID: 4305519
3 Page(s) of Draft Labeling have been Withheld in Full as b4 (CCI/TS) 
immediately following this page

===PAGE 43===
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is a representation of an electronic record that was signed
electronically and this page is the manifestation of the electronic
signature.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
/s/
------------------------------------------------------------
JOHN C MORRIS
04/06/2018
LOLITA G WHITE
04/09/2018
Reference ID: 4245719
Reference ID: 4305519

===PAGE 44===
1
CDER Breakthrough Therapy Designation Determination Review Template
IND/NDA/BLA #
117395
Request Receipt Date
9/29/2017
Product
patisiran
Indication
treatment for adults with hereditary transthyretin-mediated 
amyloidosis (hATTR amyloidosis) with polyneuropathy
Drug Class/Mechanism of 
Action
ribonucleic acid interference (RNAi)
Sponsor
Alnylam Pharmaceuticals
ODE/Division
ODE I/ Division of Neurology Products
Breakthrough Therapy  
Request(BTDR) Goal Date 
(within 60 days of receipt) 
11/28/2017
Section I: Provide the following information to determine if the BTDR can be denied without Medical 
Policy Council (MPC) review.
1.
Briefly describe the indication for which the product is intended (Describe clearly and concisely since the 
wording will be used in the designation decision letter):
Hereditary transthyretin- mediated amyloidosis (hATTR amyloidosis) is a life-threatening autosomal dominant 
disorder (>120 TTR gene mutations known) due to slowly progressive buildup of amyloid protein in the 
peripheral and central nervous systems, heart, kidneys, eyes, bone, and gastrointestinal tract.  The disease is 
caused by misfolding of the transthyretin (TTR) protein leading to protein aggregation and the formation of 
amyloid fibrils. 
 
There are three general forms of the disease, although patients can have overlapping symptoms from all three 
forms.  The neuropathic form includes peripheral neuropathy, autonomic dysfunction, vitreous opacity of the 
eye, and glaucoma.  The leptomeningeal form includes stroke, intracranial hemorrhage, hydrocephalus, ataxia, 
spastic paralysis, seizures, dementia, psychosis, and vision impairment.  The cardiac form includes arrhythmia, 
cardiomegaly, heart failure, and death.
The incidence of hATTR is 1/538 in northern Portugal and about 1/100,000 in the U.S.  
Symptom onset occurs between 20 and 70 years of age.  Death usually occurs within 5-12 years after onset, 
most often due to cardiac dysfunction, infection, or cachexia.
The disease is often misdiagnosed if there is no family history to increase clinical suspicion.  The diagnosis can 
be confirmed by histopathology and genetic analysis.  
Treatment options include liver transplant.  There is no approved drug for the treatment of hATTR in the United 
States.
2.
Are the data supporting the BTDR from trials/IND(s) which 
     are on Clinical Hold?
                                                                
YES  
NO
If 2 above is checked “Yes,” the BTDR can be denied without MPC review. Skip to number 5 for clearance and sign-
off.  If checked “No”,  proceed with below:
Reference ID: 4207763
Reference ID: 4305519

===PAGE 45===
2
3.
Consideration of Breakthrough Therapy Criteria: 
a.
Is the condition serious/life-threatening1)?
YES  
NO
If 3a is  checked “No,” the BTDR can be denied without MPC review. Skip to number 5 for clearance and sign-off.  If 
checked “Yes”,  proceed with below:
b.
Are the clinical data used to support preliminary clinical evidence that the drug may demonstrate substantial 
improvement over existing therapies on 1 or more clinically significant endpoints  adequeate and sufficiently 
complete to permit a substantive review?  
 YES the BTDR is  adequate and sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review 
 Undetermined 
 NO, the BTDR  is inadequate and  not sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review;  therefore 
the request must be denied because (check one or more below):
i.
Only animal/nonclinical data submitted as evidence
ii.
Insufficient clinical data provided to evaluate the BTDR
(e.g. only high-level summary of data provided, insufficient information
 about the protocol[s])
iii.
Uncontrolled clinical trial not interpretable because endpoints 
are not well-defined and the natural history of the disease is not
relentlessly progressive (e.g. multiple sclerosis, depression)
iv.
Endpoint does not assess or is not plausibly related to a serious 
aspect of the disease (e.g., alopecia in cancer patients, erythema 
chronicum migrans in Lyme disease)
v.
No or minimal clinically meaningful improvement as compared
to available therapy2/ historical experience (e.g., <5%
improvement in FEV1 in cystic fibrosis,  best available
therapy changed by recent approval)
4.
Provide below a brief description of the  deficiencies for each box checked above in Section 3b: 
If 3b is checked “No”,  BTDR can be denied without MPC review. Skip to number 5 for clearance and sign-off  (Note: 
The Division always has the option of taking the request to the MPC for review if the MPC’s input is desired. If this is 
the case, proceed with BTDR review and complete Section II).  If MPC review is not required, email Miranda Raggio 
and Sandy Benton as soon as this determination is made so that the BTDR can be removed from the MPC calendar.
If 3b is checked  “Yes” or “Undetermined”,  proceed with BTDR review and complete Section II, as MPC review is 
required.
5.
Clearance and Sign-Off (no MPC review)
Deny Breakthrough Therapy Designation
 
Reviewer Signature:
{See appended electronic signature page}
Team Leader Signature:
{See appended electronic signature page}
Division Director Signature:
{See appended electronic signature page}
1 For a definition of serious and life threatening see Guidance for Industry: “Expedited Programs for Serious Conditions––Drugs and 
Biologics” http://www fda.gov/downloads/Drugs/GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation/Guidances/UCM358301.pdf
2 For a definition of available therapy refer to Guidance for Industry: “Expedited Programs for Serious Conditions––Drugs and 
Biologics” http://www fda.gov/downloads/Drugs/GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation/Guidances/UCM358301.pdf
Reference ID: 4207763
Reference ID: 4305519

===PAGE 46===
3
__________________________________________________________________________________________________
Section II: If the BTDR cannot be denied without MPC review in accordance with numbers 1-3 above,  
or if the Division is recommending that the BTDR be granted, provide the following additional 
information needed by the MPC to evaluate the BTDR.
6.
A brief description of the drug, the drug’s mechanism of action (if known), the drug’s relation to existing 
therapy(ies), and any relevant regulatory history.  Consider the following in your response. 
Information regarding the disease and intended population for the proposed indication. 
o See Section I, (1).
Disease mechanism (if known) and natural history (if the disease is uncommon).
o See Section I, (1).
Patisiran was granted orphan drug designation on 6/14/2012 and Fast Track on 10/31/2013.  
The mechanism of action of patisiran is via ribonucleic acid interference (RNAi). RNAi is a biological process 
by which siRNA, typically 21-23 nucleotides in length, can direct sequence-specific degradation of mRNA. 
When synthetic siRNAs are introduced into cells, the net effect is the binding of the siRNA to its complementary 
mRNA sequence, the cleavage of this target mRNA, and the suppression of the target protein encoded by the 
mRNA. Thus, patisiran suppresses the production of TTR (both wild type and mutated type).
Since unformulated siRNAs are rapidly eliminated and do not achieve significant tissue distribution, siRNA 
targeting TTR mRNA are delivered to target tissue in lipid nanoparticle (LNP) formulations intravenously. The 
target tissue is primarily the liver.
7.
 Information related to endpoints used in the available clinical data: 
a.
Describe the endpoints considered by the sponsor as supporting the BTDR and any other endpoints the sponsor 
plans to use in later trials. Specify if the endpoints are primary or secondary, and if they are surrogates.
The following endpoints were used for the Patisiran-LNP Phase 3 (ALN-TTR02-004, APOLLO) Trial.
•
Primary efficacy endpoint
•
Change from baseline in the mNIS+7 composite neurologic impairment score at 18 months. 
•
Secondary endpoints 
•
Norfolk QOL-DN quality of life score 
•
motor strength (NIS-W)
•
disability (R-ODS)
•
gait speed (10-meter walk test)
•
nutritional status (mBMI) 
•
autonomic symptoms (COMPASS-31)
The primary endpoint, mNIS+7, is composed of a clinical exam-based neuropathy impairment score (NIS) 
combined with electrophysiologic measures of small and large nerve fiber function (+7) such as nerve conduction 
studies (NCS), quantitative sensory testing (QST), and measurement of autonomic function (postural blood 
pressure). Many of the individual components of the score, such as nerve conduction studies, are clearly 
biomarkers that do not, of themselves, represent direct clinical benefit. Other components of the score, such as 
Reference ID: 4207763
Reference ID: 4305519

===PAGE 47===
4
motor and sensory function by neurological exam, also are not direct measures of clinical benefit, as differences 
detected by the physician might not be perceptible to the patient or result in improved function in daily activities.
The Norfolk Quality of Life – Diabetic Neuropathy (QOL-QN) is a 47-item questionnaire that assesses 
neuropathy symptoms and physical functioning, activites of daily living (ADL), symptoms of small and large-
fiber neuropathy, and autonomic neuropathy.
b.
Describe the endpoint(s) that are accepted by the Division as clinically significant (outcome measures) for 
patients with the disease. Consider the following in your response:
There are no established endpoints for clinical trials in TTR-FAP.  The Division had previously indicated to the 
sponsor that positive results on the mNIS+7, if supported by positive results on the Norfolk QOL-DN, would be 
an acceptable approach to demonstrating a clinically meaningful treatment effect in the APOLLO trial.
 
c.
Describe any other biomarkers that the Division would consider likely to predict a clinical benefit for the 
proposed indication even if not yet a basis for accelerated approval.
There is limited evidence to conclude the degree to which any observed reduction in the TTR protein could be 
considered to predict clinical benefit.
8.
A brief description of available therapies, if any, including a table of the available Rx names, endpoint(s) 
used to establish efficacy, the magnitude of the treatment effects (including hazard ratio, if applicable), and the 
specific intended population. Consider the following in your response:
Treatment options for hATTR include liver transplant and Diflunisal, which is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
drug (NSAID) (off-label use).  There is no approved drug for hATTR in the United States. The following table 
summarizes the clinical study that was completed with diflunisal.
Rx Name
Endpoints
Treatment Effect Magnitude
Intended 
Population
Diflunisal 
(Off-label 
use)
Neuropathy 
Impairment 
Score plus 7 
nerve tests 
(NIS+7)
quality-of-
life 
questionnaire 
(36-Item 
Short-Form 
Health 
Survey [SF-
36])
The NIS+7 score increased by 25.0 (95% CI, 18.4-31.6) 
points in the placebo group and by 8.7 (95% CI, 3.3-
14.1) points in the diflunisal group, a difference of 16.3 
points (95% CI, 8.1-24.5 points; P < .001). Mean SF-36 
physical scores decreased by 4.9 (95% CI, -7.6 to -2.2) 
points in the placebo group and increased by 1.5 (95% 
CI, -0.8 to 3.7) points in the diflunisal group (P < .001).
Adults with 
familial 
amyloid 
polyneuropathy 
exhibiting 
clinically 
detectable 
peripheral or 
autonomic 
neuropathy
Reference ID: 4207763
Reference ID: 4305519

===PAGE 48===
5
9.  A brief description of any drugs being studied for the same indication, or very similar indication, that 
      requested breakthrough therapy designation3.  
      None.
10.  Information related to the preliminary clinical evidence: 
The patisiran-LNP (ALN-TTR02-004, APOLLO) trial was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 3 
trial in adult patients with hATTR amyloidosis with polyneuropathy.  The APOLLO trial enrolled 225 patients (148 
on patisiran-LNP and 77 on placebo). 193 patients completed the study. The following table summarizes the design of 
the trial.
Study ID
Phase
Design
Endpoints
Treatment 
groups
Number of 
subjects 
enrolled
ALN-
TTR02-
004, 
APOLLO
3
Randomized, 
double-
blind, 
placebo-
controlled
•
Primary efficacy endpoint
•
Change from baseline 
in the mNIS+7 
composite neurologic 
impairment score at 
18 months. 
•
Secondary endpoints 
•
Norfolk QOL-DN 
quality of life score 
•
motor strength (NIS-
W)
•
disability (R-ODS)
•
gait speed (10-meter 
walk test)
•
nutritional status 
(mBMI) 
•
autonomic symptoms 
(COMPASS-31)
Patisiran
Placebo
225 adult 
patients with 
hATTR 
amyloidosis 
with 
polyneuropa
thy
The tables/figure below, copied from the sponsor’s submission, summarize the APOLLO study results.  Highly 
statistically significant results are present across all key efficacy endpoints.  Further, as the sponsor’s figure 4 
indicates, there appears to be a numerical improvement in the primary endpoint over the course of the trial.
3 Biweekly reports of all BTDRs, including the sponsor, drug, and indication, are generated and sent to all CPMSs.
Reference ID: 4207763
Reference ID: 4305519

===PAGE 49===
6
Reference ID: 4207763
Reference ID: 4305519

===PAGE 50===
7
b.    Include any additional relevant information. Consider the following in your response:
These data provide clear preliminary clinical evidence of a substantial improvement over available therapies.  No 
drug is approved for hATTR in the U.S.  
The safety data for patiseran suggest an acceptable safety profile.  There are no safety considerations that would 
affect the consideration of this request.
11. Division’s recommendation and  rationale (pre-MPC review):
 GRANT :
Provide brief summary of rationale for granting: 
The APOLLO trial results show a clinically meaningful difference in neurological impairment favoring the drug group, as 
supported by highly statistically significant results for all primary and secondary endpoints.  No drug is approved for the 
treatment of hATTR in the U.S.  
Reference ID: 4207763
Reference ID: 4305519

===PAGE 51===
8
            
DENY: 
Provide brief summary of rationale for denial:
Not applicable.
12.   Division’s next steps and sponsor’s plan for future development:
There is a pre-NDA meeting scheduled for November 13, 2017.  The sponsor’s NDA is already under a rolling review 
with a planned submission during December 2017.  No additional development advice is necessary at this time.  The 
Division has and will continue to work closely with the sponsor to expeditiously finalize and review its application.
13. List references, if any: 
Berk, J., et al., Repurposing diflunisal for familial amyloid polyneuropathy: a randomized
clinical trial. JAMA, 2013. 310(24): p. 2658-67.
Adams, D., et al., First European consensus for diagnosis, management, and treatment of transthyretin familial amyloid 
polyneuropathy.  Current Opinion in Neurology, 2016. 29(S1):  p. S14-26
14. Is the Division requesting a virtual MPC meeting via email in lieu of a face-to-face meeting? YES 
   NO 
15. Clearance and Sign-Off (after MPC review):
Grant Breakthrough Therapy Designation
 
Deny Breakthrough Therapy Designation
Reviewer Signature:
{See appended electronic signature page}
Team Leader Signature:
{See appended electronic signature page}
Division Director Signature:
{See appended electronic signature page}
Revised 8/4/17/M. Raggio
Reference ID: 4207763
Reference ID: 4305519

===PAGE 52===
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is a representation of an electronic record that was signed
electronically and this page is the manifestation of the electronic
signature.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
/s/
----------------------------------------------------
RAINER PAINE
01/16/2018
NICHOLAS A KOZAUER
01/16/2018
Reference ID: 4207763
Reference ID: 4305519
