
===PAGE 1===
CENTER FOR DRUG EVALUATION AND 
RESEARCH 
 
 
APPLICATION NUMBER: 
 
209531Orig1s000 
 
 
SUMMARY REVIEW 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 2===

===PAGE 3===
 
2
Controlled Substance Staff 
Martin Rusinowitz, Michael Klein 
Cardiac Safety  
Christine Garnett, Norman Stockbridge 
Rare Diseases 
Althea Cuff 
Associate Director for Labeling 
Tracy Peters 
Cross-Discipline Team Leader 
Nicholas Kozauer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference ID: 4033082

===PAGE 4===
 
3
1. Benefit-Risk Assessment 
 
Reference ID: 4033082
APPEARS THIS WAY ON ORIGINAL

===PAGE 5===
 
4
 
Benefit-Risk Summary and Assessment 
 
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by atrophy of the voluntary muscles of the limbs and trunk. It is the most common 
genetic cause of death in infants.  SMA is caused by a deletion or mutation of the survival motor neuron 1 (SMN1) gene located on chromosome 5q coding 
for the survival motor neuron (SMN) protein, which helps to maintain motor neurons.  A small amount of SMN protein is produced from a similar gene 
known as SMN2. However, most SMN2 mRNA transcripts lack exon 7, which leads to the production of a truncated protein that is easily degraded.  
Nusinersen (ISIS 396443) is a 2’‐O‐(2‐methoxyethyl) antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) that is designed to bind to the SMN2 pre‐mRNA and promote the 
inclusion of exon 7 in the mRNA transcript, with the goal of increasing the production of functional SMN protein.  
 
The number of copies of the SMN2 gene that a patient has is the best predictor of clinical phenotype. Patients with infantile‐onset SMA, consistent with 
having 2 copies of the SMN2 gene, uniformly fail to reach developmental motor milestones such as the ability to sit unassisted, and rarely survive beyond 24 
months of age in the absence of life‐sustaining interventions.  Patients with 3 copies of the SMN2 gene are generally unable to walk without assistance, and 
approximately 70% are alive at 25 years of age.  Patients with 4 or more copies of the SMN2 gene may have normal life expectancies, and tend to experience 
a more varied clinical course ranging from mild weakness to the loss of previously attained motor milestones in adulthood (although some can still  be more 
severely affected).   
 
There is no FDA‐approved treatment for SMA. 
 
This application includes data from an interim analysis of a double‐blind, sham‐procedure controlled trial in infantile‐onset SMA patients who have 2 copies 
of the SMN2 gene (Study CS3B).  This trial demonstrated a clear and important benefit of nusinersen, with 21/52 (40%) of nusinersen‐treated patients who 
met a motor milestone development responder definition, vs. 0/30 (0%) of sham‐procedure controls (p<0.0001).  Secondary endpoints, although only 
presented descriptively according to the analysis plan, consistently support a treatment benefit.   
 
During the review cycle, the applicant provided the topline results of a double‐blind, sham‐procedure controlled trial in patients with later‐onset SMA Study 
(Study CS4), with the majority having 3 copies of the SMN2 gene [range: 2‐4]). The study was stopped based on a highly statistically significant (p=0.000002) 
treatment effect on the Hammersmith Functional Motor Scale – Expanded (HFMSE). The applicant reports that all sensitivity analyses for the primary 
endpoint consistently supported this result. The findings of this study, although not yet independently reviewed by FDA, are supportive of efficacy in later‐
onset SMA patients. 
 
The applicant has also conducted several open‐label studies with nusinersen, covering a broad range of age groups, from presymptomatic infantile‐onset 
(genetically diagnosed) SMA to later‐onset SMA. Findings from these studies are generally supportive of efficacy, with patients achieving milestones not 
expected for the study population, maintaining milestones to ages at which they would be expected to be lost, and surviving to ages unexpected considering 
Reference ID: 4033082

===PAGE 6===

===PAGE 7===

===PAGE 8===

===PAGE 9===

===PAGE 10===

===PAGE 11===
 
10
This application includes data from the results of an interim analysis of a study in patients with 
infantile-onset SMA (Study CS3B), which was double-blind and sham-procedure controlled, 
and is proposed as primary support for the efficacy of nusinersen.   Data from several 
completed or ongoing open-label trials were also provided, including the topline results of 
Study CS4, a 15-month, double-blind, sham-procedure controlled trial in patients with later-
onset SMA, which was ongoing at the time of the original NDA submission.   
 
3. Product Quality 
 
I concur with the conclusions reached by the chemistry reviewer regarding the acceptability of 
the manufacturing of the drug product and drug substance.  Manufacturing site inspections 
were acceptable.  OPQ will grant a 
month re-test period for the drug substance when stored 
, and a 30-month drug product expiration period when stored refrigerated in commercial 
packaging. Several post-approval quality agreements have been reached between the applicant 
and OPQ.  There are no outstanding CMC issues. 
 
4. Nonclinical Pharmacology/Toxicology 
 
I concur with the conclusions reached by the pharmacology/toxicology reviewer that there are 
no outstanding pharm/tox issues that preclude approval. 
 
A noteworthy finding in nonclinical studies is neuronal vacuolation in the inferior region of 
the hippocampus. In some animals, this vacuolation was associated with neuronal and glial cell 
necrosis and cellular debris. Vacuolation and necrotic cells/cellular debris were still present 
following 24 weeks of recovery. The no-observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) for 
neurohistopathology in monkeys (39 mg/year) is similar to the proposed human maintenance 
dose (36 mg/year), and was associated with tissue levels similar to those measured in patient 
tissue samples at autopsy. In addition, possible long-term effects on performance in a learning 
and memory test, which could be related to drug-related hippocampal neurohistopathology, 
were observed in juvenile monkeys in a 1-year study. The nonclinical reviewer also describes 
histopathologic findings attributed to the expected effects of local and systemic accumulations 
of oligonucleotide and/or their pro-inflammatory effects, including basophilic granules in the 
kidney, liver Kupffer cell hypertrophy, and vacuolated macrophages at the injection site and in 
the lymph node and multiple other tissues. No clear evidence of reproductive or developmental 
toxicity was seen in mice and rabbit studies, and testing for genotoxicity was negative in a 
standard battery of in vitro and in vivo assays. 
 
Carcinogenicity studies were not conducted. The applicant has requested a waiver based on the 
infeasibility of conducting lifetime studies in rodents by the IT route, but given the significant 
systemic exposure documented in clinical studies, the nonclinical reviewer recommends a 
parenteral study in one species be conducted postmarketing. I support requesting that study.  
 
Reference ID: 4033082
(b) (4)
(b) (4)

===PAGE 12===

===PAGE 13===
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study CS3B in patients with infantile-onset SMA, which used a double-blind, sham-control 
design, provides the primary source of efficacy data for this application. The additional trials, 
which all used an open-label design, were intended to provide supportive efficacy information 
across a broad age range of patients with SMA.   
 
Study CS3B in Infantile-Onset SMA 
Study CS3B was a 13-month, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, sham-procedure 
controlled trial in patients with infantile-onset SMA.  Approximately 111 subjects were to be 
randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive either a scaled-equivalent 12 mg dose of nusinersen, 
administered intrathecally by lumbar puncture, or a sham-procedure control. Subjects received 
loading doses on Day 1, 15, 29, and 64, followed by maintenance doses on Day 183 and 302 
(i.e., every 4 months).  Randomization was stratified based on disease duration at screening 
(≤12 weeks versus >12 weeks).  Subjects were required to have 2 copies of the SMN2 gene, 
consistent primarily with a clinical diagnosis of Type I SMA, but also in a small proportion of 
patients with type II. 
 
An interim analysis was to include all subjects that had a Day 183 visit at the time of the cut-
off date of June 15, 2016. The interim analysis conducted by the applicant included 78 subjects 
(nusinersen n=51; sham controls n=27). The primary endpoint for the interim analysis was the 
between-group difference in the proportion of patients who achieve an improvement in motor 
milestones, based on a definition using Section 2 of the Hammersmith Infant Neurological 
Examination (HINE). That scale is comprised of eight tests: head control, sitting, voluntary 
Reference ID: 4033082

===PAGE 14===
 
13
grasp, ability to kick in supine position, rolling, crawling, standing, and walking. A responder 
had to satisfy the following two criteria: (1) The subject demonstrated at least a 2-point 
increase in the motor milestones category of ability to kick, or achievement of a maximal score 
on that category (i.e., touching toes), or a 1-point increase in the motor milestones of head 
control, rolling, sitting, crawling, standing, or walking, AND (2) among the 7 motor milestone 
categories (with the exclusion of voluntary grasp), the subject demonstrated improvement in 
more categories than worsening. That endpoint is very relevant and interpretable clinically, 
and the separation between the milestones allows a clear assessment of meaningful functional 
differences. Time to death or permanent ventilation, determined in a blinded fashion by a 
central, independent Event Adjudication Committee, was the second primary efficacy 
endpoint. The next endpoint to be tested was the proportion of CHOP INTEND responders, 
defined as a change from baseline of at least 4 points. CHOP-INTEND is a 64-point motor 
development scale for SMA, with higher scores being better. These endpoints were 
descriptively reported, as per the analysis plan. 
 
The responder definition for the HINE was met by 41% of nusinersen-treated patients, vs. 0% 
of patients in the control group (p<0.0001). A sensitivity analysis that includes all patients who 
died or withdrew after baseline showed similar results (40% responders on nusinersen vs. 0% 
in the control group; p<0.0001).  This analysis is recommended by the team for description in 
labeling. Other sensitivity analyses conducted by the statistical reviewer were supportive of the 
primary efficacy results.  
 
Five patients in the nusinersen group were able to sit unassisted, vs. no patient in the sham- 
control group. As discussed by the review team, the achievement of this milestone would be 
extremely rare in patients historically diagnosed with Type I SMA, and is also supportive of 
efficacy of the product, although some of the patients who achieved that milestone could have 
had type II SMA.   
 
A descriptive analysis of secondary endpoints was consistent with efficacy of nusinersen. In 
the overall study population, 15% of patients in the nusinersen-treated group died, vs. 32% in 
the control group (HR = 0.44); 34% of patients in the nusinersen-treated group  died or 
required permanent ventilation, vs. 49% of patients in the control group (HR = 0.71). In the 
interim analysis data set, 65% of nusinersen-treated subjects  met the pre-specified responder 
definition for the CHOP-INTEND, as compared to 4% of patients in the control group.  A 
worsening in CHOP-INTEND score of at least 4 points was observed in 4% of nusinersen-
treated patients, vs. 48% in the control group. Findings on various electrophysiologic studies 
were also supportive of the efficacy.   
 
Following the highly positive results of the interim analysis, Study CS3B was stopped, with all 
subjects switched over to receive active treatment with nusinersen.   
 
Study CS4 in Later-Onset SMA 
 
During the review cycle, the applicant provided the topline results of Study CS4, which was 
ongoing at the time of the NDA submission.  Study CS4 was a 15-month, double-blind, sham-
procedure controlled trial in patients with later-onset SMA. Patients in Study CS4 mostly 
Reference ID: 4033082

===PAGE 15===
 
14
would have had a clinical diagnosis of Type 2 SMA, with the majority having 3 copies of the 
SMN2 gene [range: 2-4]).  The nusinersen dosing regimen was the same as in Study CS3B.  
The applicant conducted an interim analysis based on a data cut-off of August 31, 2016. The 
analysis included 126 patients (84 on nusinersen and 42 controls).  The study was stopped 
based on a highly statistically significant treatment effect. The applicant describes that  
Hammersmith Functional Motor Scale – Expanded (HFMSE) scores were significantly higher 
in the nusinersen group (4.0) as compared to the control group (-1.9), p=0.000002.  The 
applicant reports that all sensitivity analyses for the primary endpoint consistently supported 
this result. A total of 57% of subjects in the nusinersen group achieved a 3-point or greater 
increase in HFMSE scores over baseline at 15 months, vs. 21% of controls. The findings of 
this study, although not yet independently reviewed by FDA, appear supportive of efficacy in 
later-onset SMA patients. 
 
Other studies 
 
The applicant has conducted several additional open-label studies with nusinersen, covering a 
broad range of age groups, from presymptomatic infantile-onset (genetically diagnosed) SMA 
to later-onset SMA. These studies are discussed in Dr. Paine’s review and Dr. Kozauer’s 
memorandum. Findings from these studies were generally supportive of efficacy, with patients 
achieving milestones not expected for the study population, maintening  milestones to ages at 
which they would be expected to be lost, and surviving to ages unexpected considering their 
number of SMN2 gene copies. 
 
 
Efficacy Conclusions 
 
I am in full agreement with Dr. Kozauer that the current application  provides substantial 
evidence of effectiveness based on the “single study plus confirmatory evidence” standard.   
As discussed by Dr. Kozauer, Study CS3B, conducted in infantile-onset SMA, demonstrated a 
clinically important and highly statistically significant effect on motor milestone development 
that was consistently supported by multiple secondary endpoints. The results of Study CS3B 
are supported by the topline results of Study CS4, and by the results of open-label studies 
conducted by the applicant. These studies cover a broad range of ages of disease onset.  
 
I also agree with the argument presented by Dr. Kozauer that the efficacy findings can be 
generalized to the full range of SMA subtypes. As discussed by Dr. Kozauer, the mechanism 
of action of nusinersen, i.e., increase in transcription of full-length SMN2 mRNA, is expected 
to result in clinical efficacy across the whole disease spectrum. Also, the available evidence 
already covers a wide range of SMA age of onset, from early to late onset of the disease. 
Therefore, I support an indication without restriction of age of onset. I also agree with Dr. 
Kozauer that the 12mg/5mL dose of nusinersen is appropriate across age groups, as the 
average CSF volume shows largely overlaps between children and adults.   
 
 
Reference ID: 4033082

===PAGE 16===
 
15
8. Safety 
 
I agree with the review team that the size of the safety database is acceptable for this 
indication. Out of 173 patients in the database, 82 were exposed for ≥ 12 months, mostly at the 
12 mg dose proposed for marketing. As discussed above, there were fewer deaths in 
nusinersen-treated patients (15%) than in sham-procedure controls (32%) in Study CS3B.   
 
The review team identified a few significant safety issues with nusinersen. These issues do not 
outweigh the clear treatment benefit, but justify description in labeling with appropriate risk 
mitigation recommendations for prescribers. These issues include the following: 
 
 Bleeding Risk: Thrombocytopenia was seen 11% of nusinersen-treated patients in Study 
CS3B, compared with 0% of sham-control patients. In the safety database, 2% of 
nusinersen-treated patients had platelet counts < 100,000 cells per microliter, but no patient 
had a count below 50,000 cells per microliter. Patients with thrombocytopenia may be at 
increased risk of bleeding complications after lumbar puncture for intrathecal 
administration. This risk should be described in the “Warnings and Precautions” section of 
labeling, with a recommendation for coagulation laboratory testing at baseline and prior to 
each maintenance administration of nusinersen. 
 
 Renal Toxicity: Nusinersen accumulates in the kidney, which is a target organ for 
nusinersen, as has also been observed for other antisense oligonucleotides. In Study CS3B, 
33% of nusinersen-treated patients had elevated urine protein, compared with 20% of 
sham-controls.  In a group of later-onset SMA patients (mean treatment exposure 34 
months), 36 of 52 (69%) had elevated urine protein. Potentially fatal glomerulonephritis 
has been associated with other oligonucleotides, but was not seen with nusinersen. This 
risk should be described in the “Warnings and Precautions” section of labeling, with a 
recommendation for quantitative urine protein testing  at baseline and prior to each dose of 
nusinersen.  
 
 Hyponatremia: prolonged severe hyponatremia was observed in a patient treated with 
nusinersen; this required salt supplementation for 14 months. There was no obvious cause 
other than nusinersen treatment, but potential confounders were present. As this is a single 
case, and the treatment causality is not entirely clear, I recommend description of this event  
in the “Adverse Reactions” section of labeling, and postmarketing monitoring for serious 
cases of hyponatremia. 
 
 Effect on growth: In Study CS3B, nusinersen-treated subjects had reduced growth 
compared with sham-procedure controls. This observation is somewhat surprising, 
considering the robust effect of nusinersen on spinal muscular atrophy, which would be 
expected to improve growth in treated patients. Although the causes of these effects are 
speculative, they should be described in the “Adverse Reactions” section of labeling. 
 
 Rash and Possible Vasculitis: There were 3 cases of possible vasculitis with nusinersen. 
One patient, 8 months after starting nusinersen treatment, developed painless red macular 
lesions on the forearm, leg, and foot over an 8-week period. The lesions ulcerated and 
Reference ID: 4033082

===PAGE 17===
 
16
scabbed over within 4 weeks, and resolved without treatment over several months. A 
second patient developed red macular skin lesions on the cheek and hand ten months after 
the start of nusinersen treatment; these lesions resolved over 3 months. Importantly, 
treatment with nusinersen was continued in both of these patients, with resolution of the 
reash. In addition, one patient had a cerebral infarction, described by the team as possibly 
related to vasculitis. While vasculitis is in the differential diagnosis for this event, this 
remains very speculative. The review team notes that the pro-inflammatory effects of 
antisense nucleotides have been described in the published literature and may have been 
involved in these suspected cases of vasculitis. Considering the resolution of the skin rash 
and continued treatment with nusinersen, I believe that description of the events in the 
“Adverse Reactions” section of labeling is adequate.  
 
 Neurologic Toxicity: As described above, neurotoxicity including hippocampal 
vacuolization and necrotic cells was observed in monkeys administered nusinersen. 
Clinical correlates have not been observed, but would not have been easily identified in the 
SMA population. This information should be described in the “Nonclinical Toxicology” 
section of labeling. 
 
 Hepatic Effects: Nusinersen is deposited in the liver and therefore has the potential for 
hepatic toxicity.  In Study CS3B, small increases alanine aminotransferase (ALT) were 
observed in 4% of nusinersen-treated patients, compared to none in control patients. As 
increases of ALT and AST could also be of skeletal muscle origin, and considering the 
limited increase and small number of patients, and the absence of hepatic adverse 
reactions, I do not believe that this observation deserves a description in labeling, as drug 
causality is not established. I recommend postmarketing monitoring for serious cases of 
hepatotoxicity.   
 
Immunogenicity 
Plasma samples from all clinical studies were analyzed for anti-drug antibody (ADA) 
presence. Across the safety database, five patients had positive ADA samples. There was no 
adverse events associated with the presence of ADA in these patients.  The ability of ADA to 
cross-react with nucleic acids was not evaluated. The team recommends a post-marketing 
requirement to conduct a study to assess for the presence of antibodies that bind native double-
stranded (ds) DNA among patients treated with nusinersen.  I agree. 
 
QT effects 
In Study CS3B, 4 of 80 (5%) of nusinersen patients had a QTc value above 500 milliseconds 
(ms), and an increase of >60 ms from baseline, compared to 0 of 41 control patients. The QT 
review team comments that they are not aware of other small therapeutic proteins that directly 
inhibit the hERG channel and cause QTc interval prolongation. However, they note that the 
applicant has not conducted in vitro safety pharmacology studies to rule out such a 
mechanism. They observe that it is difficult to determine from the clinical data whether 
nusinersen affects cardiac repolarization, as measured by QTc prolongation. They note that 
prolonged QTc interval in individual patients could have also occurred for reasons related to 
concomitant medications, the underlying disease or associated adverse events related to the 
disease. They suggest evaluating the potential for nusinersen to delay cardiac repolarization in 
Reference ID: 4033082

===PAGE 18===
 
17
ongoing clinical trials, acknowledging that a thorough QT study is not feasible for this 
product. The QT review team recommends a description of the findings in Section 12 of 
labeling. I agree.  
 
 
9. Advisory Committee Meeting   
 
This application was not referred for review to an advisory committee, because outside 
expertise was not necessary. There were no controversial issues that would benefit from 
advisory committee discussion.  
 
10. 
Other Relevant Regulatory Issues 
 
There are no unresolved regulatory issues. 
 
The Office of Scientific Investigations (OSI) has inspected three clinical investigator sites.  
Data submitted by the applicant in support of the pending application for these sites were 
found acceptable and the studies appear to have been conducted adequately. 
 
The Controlled Substance Staff concludes that there are no data indicating that nusinersen has 
abuse potential or induces physical dependence.  Nusinersen should not bind to receptors 
known to be involved in drug abuse, and the intrathecal route of administration is unlikely to 
have a potential for abuse. 
 
11. 
Labeling 
 
There are no outstanding labeling issues. As discussed by the review team, the label will 
include WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS for thrombocytopenia and coagulation 
abnormalities and renal toxicity..  
 
12. 
Postmarketing 
 
I agree with the review team that a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy (REMS) is not 
needed for nusinersen, considering the highly specialized setting under which nusinersen will 
be administered, with regular visits required for drug administration. I agree that risk 
management of nusinersen can be accomplished through appropriate labeling and enhanced 
pharmacovigilance for thrombocytopenia, glomerulonephritis, nephrotic syndrome or 
nephrotic range proteinuria.   
 
The following are the recommended post-marketing requirements: 
 
Reference ID: 4033082

===PAGE 19===
 
18
 A study to assess for the presence of antibodies that bind native double-stranded (ds) 
DNA among patients treated with nusinersen. The study may be conducted with 
plasma samples from patients treated with nusinersen in the clinical development 
program, including ongoing studies, but should include samples from patients who test 
negative as well as patients who test positive for antibodies to nusinersen. Among 
patients who develop anti-drug antibodies, samples should be included from patients 
shortly after seroconversion as well as from sustained responders. A sensitive assay 
should be used to assess presence of antibodies to double-stranded (ds) DNA in patient 
samples. 
 A two-year carcinogenicity study in one rodent species (CD-1mice) with subcutaneous 
administration of nusinersen. 
 A pre-and postnatal development (including maternal function) study of nusinersen in 
rodent. 
 
Reference ID: 4033082

===PAGE 20===
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is a representation of an electronic record that was signed
electronically and this page is the manifestation of the electronic
signature.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
/s/
----------------------------------------------------
ERIC P BASTINGS
12/23/2016
Reference ID: 4033082
