 
 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
An agency of the European Union   
   
Telephone +44 (0)20 3660 6000 Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5525 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
 
 
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.  
 
9 July 20181  
EMA/PRAC/397088/2018 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
New product information wording – Extracts from PRAC 
recommendations on signals 
Adopted at the 11-14 June 2018 PRAC 
The product information wording in this document is extracted from the document entitled ‘PRAC 
recommendations on signals’ which contains the whole text of the PRAC recommendations for product 
information update, as well as some general guidance on the handling of signals. It can be found here 
(in English only). 
New text to be added to the product information is underlined. Current text to be deleted is struck 
through. 
1.  Nabumetone – Drug reaction with eosinophilia and 
systemic symptoms (DRESS)(EPITT no 19241) 
Summary of product characteristics 
4.4. Special warnings and precautions for use 
Serious skin reactions, some of them fatal, including exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome 
(SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms 
(DRESS), which can be life-threatening or fatal, have been reported very rarely in association with the 
use of NSAIDs, including nabumetone (see section 4.8). 
At the time of prescription patients should be advised of the signs and symptoms and monitored 
closely for skin reactions. If signs and symptoms suggestive of these reactions appear, nabumetone 
should be withdrawn immediately and an alternative treatment considered (as appropriate). 
Patients appear to be at highest risk of these reactions early in the course of therapy, the onset of the 
reaction occurring in the majority of cases within the first two months of treatment. Nabumetone 
should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash, mucosal lesions or any other sign of 
hypersensitivity. 
If the patient has developed a serious reaction such as SJS, TEN or DRESS with the use of 
nabumetone, treatment with nabumetone must not be restarted in this patient at any time. 
                                                                 
1 Intended publication date. The actual publication date can be checked on the webpage dedicated to PRAC 
recommendations on safety signals. 

===PAGE===

 
 
New product information wording – Extracts from PRAC recommendations on signals  
EMA/PRAC/397088/2018 Page 2/3 
 
4.8. Undesirable effects 
Summary of safety profile 
Severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs), including exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic 
symptoms (DRESS) have been reported in association with nabumetone treatment (see section 4.4). 
 
Table of ADRs 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Very rare: Bullous reactions including toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens Johnson syndrome, drug 
reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms, erythema multiforme, angioedema, 
pseudoporphyria, alopecia 
 
Package leaflet 
4. Possible side effects 
Widespread rash, high body temperature, liver enzyme elevations, blood abnormalities (eosinophilia), 
enlarged lymph nodes and other body organs involvement (drug reaction with eosinophilia and 
systemic symptoms which is also known as DRESS or drug hypersensitivity syndrome). Stop using 
<medicine> if you develop these symptoms and contact your doctor or seek medical attention 
immediately. See also section 2. 
 
2.  Varenicline – Loss of consciousness (EPITT no 19146) 
Summary of product characteristics 
4.7. Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
CHAMPIX may have minor or moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
CHAMPIX may cause dizziness, somnolence and transient loss of consciousness, and therefore may 
influence the ability to drive and use machines. Patients are advised not to drive, operate complex 
machinery or engage in other potentially hazardous activities until it is known whether this medicinal 
product affects their ability to perform these activities. 
 
4.8. Undesirable effects 
Nervous system disorders 
[…] 
Not known  Transient loss of consciousness 
 
 
Package leaflet 
2. What you need to know before you take CHAMPIX 
Driving and using machines 
CHAMPIX may be linked with produce dizziness, sleepiness and transient loss of consciousness. You 
should not drive, operate complex machinery or engage in any other potentially hazardous activities 
until you know whether this medicine affects your ability to perform these activities. 

===PAGE===

 
 
New product information wording – Extracts from PRAC recommendations on signals  
EMA/PRAC/397088/2018 Page 3/3 
 
 
4. Possible side effects 
 
- Not known 
o Transient loss of consciousness 
 
 
 
 
 