 
 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
An agency of the European Union   
   
Telephone +44 (0)20 3660 6000 Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
 
 
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.  
 
22 February 2018 
EMA/PRAC/59224/2018 Rev1 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
PRAC recommendations on signals 
Adopted at the 5-8 February 2018 PRAC meeting 
This document provides an overview of the recommendations adopted by the Pharmacovigilance Risk 
Assessment Committee (PRAC) on the signals discussed during the meeting of 5-8 February 2018 
(including the signal European Pharmacovigilance Issues Tracking Tool [EPITT]2 reference numbers).  
PRAC recommendations to provide supplementary information are directly actionable by the concerned 
marketing authorisation holders (MAHs). PRAC recommendations for regulatory action (e.g. 
amendment of the product information) are submitted to the Committee for Medicinal Products for 
Human Use (CHMP) for endorsement when the signal concerns Centrally Authorised Products (CAPs), 
and to the Co-ordination Group for Mutual Recognition and Decentralised Procedures – Human (CMDh) 
for information in the case of Nationally Authorised Products (NAPs). Thereafter, MAHs are expected to 
take action according to the PRAC recommendations. 
When appropriate, the PRAC may also recommend the conduct of additional analyses by the Agency or 
Member States. 
MAHs are reminded that in line with Article 16(3) of Regulation No (EU) 726/2004 and Article 23(3) of 
Directive 2001/83/EC, they shall ensure that their product information is kept up to date with the 
current scientific knowledge including the conclusions of the assessment and recommendations 
published on the European Medicines Agency (EMA) website (currently acting as the EU medicines 
webportal).  
For CAPs, at the time of publication, PRAC recommendations for update of product information have 
been agreed by the CHMP at their plenary meeting (19-22 February 2018) and corresponding 
variations will be assessed by the CHMP.  
For nationally authorised medicinal products, it is the responsibility of the National Competent 
Authorities (NCAs) of the Member States to oversee that PRAC recommendations on signals are 
adhered to.  
Variations for CAPs are handled according to established EMA procedures. MAHs are referred to the 
available guidance. Variations for NAPs (including via mutual recognition and decentralised procedures) 
are handled at national level in accordance with the provisions of the Member States.  
                                                
1 The PRAC recommendation for the signal of interaction with levothyroxine on page 4 was revised on 12 July 2018. 
2 The relevant EPITT reference number should be used in any communication related to a signal. 

===PAGE===

 
 
PRAC recommendations on signals   
EMA/PRAC/59224/2018  Page 2/7 
 
 
 
The timeline recommended by PRAC for submission of variations following signal assessment is 
applicable to both innovator and generic medicinal products, unless otherwise specified. 
For procedural aspects related to the handling of PRAC recommendations on signals (e.g. submission 
requirements, contact points, etc.) please refer to the Questions and Answers on signal management. 

===PAGE===

 
 
PRAC recommendations on signals   
EMA/PRAC/59224/2018  Page 3/7 
 
 
1.  Recommendations for update of the product information3 
 
1.1.  Filgrastim; lenograstim; lipegfilgrastim; pegfilgrastim – Aortitis 
 
Authorisation procedure Centralised and non-centralised 
EPITT No 18940 
PRAC rapporteur(s) Patrick Batty (UK) 
Date of adoption 8 February 2018 
Recommendation 
Having considered the evidence from MAHs of filgrastim, lenograstim, lipegfilgrastim and pegfilgrastim, 
the PRAC agreed that there is at least a reasonable possibility of a causal association between aortitis 
and G-CSF treatment. The PRAC recommended that MAHs of filgrastim-, lenograstim-, lipegfilgrastim- 
and pegfilgrastim-containing products should submit a variation within 2 months* to amend the 
product information as described below (new text underlined): 
 
Summary of product characteristics  
4.4. Warnings and precautions 
Aortitis has been reported after G-CSF administration in healthy subjects and in cancer patients. The 
symptoms experienced included fever, abdominal pain, malaise, back pain and increased inflammatory 
markers (e.g. C-reactive protein and white blood cell count). In most cases aortitis was diagnosed by 
CT scan and generally resolved after withdrawal of G-CSF. See also section 4.8. 
 
4.8. Undesirable effects 
Vascular disorders 
Aortitis [rare frequency]  
 
 
Package leaflet 
2. Warnings and precautions 
Inflammation of the aorta (the large blood vessel which transports blood from the heart to the body) 
has been reported rarely in cancer patients and healthy donors. The symptoms can include fever, 
abdominal pain, malaise, back pain and increased inflammatory markers. Tell your doctor if you 
experience these symptoms. 
 
4. Possible side effects 
[Rare frequency] Inflammation of the aorta (the large blood vessel which transports blood from the 
heart to the body), see section 2.  
                                                
3 Translations in all official EU languages of the new product information adopted by PRAC are also available to MAHs on the 
EMA website. 

===PAGE===

 
 
PRAC recommendations on signals   
EMA/PRAC/59224/2018  Page 4/7 
 
 
*Applicants for products under authorisation should update their product information accordingly during 
evaluation. 
Note: Rare frequency is applicable for filgrastim & pegfilgrastim; for lipegfilgrastim and lenograstim the 
frequency is to be calculated by the MAHs. 
 
1.2.  Hydroxycarbamide – Cutaneous lupus erythematosus 
Authorisation procedure Centralised 
EPITT No 18939 
PRAC rapporteur(s) Laurence de Fays (BE) 
Date of adoption 8 February 2018 
Recommendation 
Having considered the evidence from MAHs of hydroxycarbamide, the PRAC recommended that MAHs 
of hydroxycarbamide-containing products should submit a variation within 2 months to amend the 
product information as described below (new text underlined): 
 
Summary of product characteristics  
4.8. Undesirable effects 
Systemic and cutaneous lupus erythematous (frequency very rare) 
 
Package leaflet 
4. Possible side effects 
Inflammation of the skin causing red scaly patches and possibly occurring together with pain in the 
joints 
 
1.3.  Ritonavir; lopinavir, ritonavir; levothyroxine – Interaction possibly 
leading to decreased levothyroxine efficacy and hypothyroidism4 
Authorisation procedure Centralised and non-centralised 
EPITT No 18896 
PRAC rapporteur(s) Menno van der Elst (NL) 
Date of adoption 8 February 2018 
Recommendation 
Having considered the available evidence, including data from EudraVigilance and the literature, the 
response from the MAH for Norvir and Kaletra (AbbVie Ltd) and the advice from the Pharmacokinetics 
Working Party (PKWP), the PRAC has concluded that an interaction between levothyroxine and 
                                                
4 The PRAC agreed on 12 July 2018 that this recommendation is not applicable to ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir 
(Viekirax). 

===PAGE===

 
 
PRAC recommendations on signals   
EMA/PRAC/59224/2018  Page 5/7 
 
 
ritonavir cannot be ruled out based on spontaneous reports and should therefore be reflected in the 
product information of ritonavir- and levothyroxine-containing medicinal products.  
The MAHs for medicinal products containing ritonavir and lopinavir/ritonavir  and those levothyroxine-
containing products whose product information does not mention a possible interaction with protease 
inhibitors, should submit a variation within 3 months to amend the product information as described 
below (new text underlined). 
The PRAC also recommended that Member States should consider communicating the outcome of the 
signal assessment to appropriate patient organisations at national level. 
 
Summary of product characteristics 
[Ritonavir and lopinavir/ritonavir containing products, and levothyroxine-containing products whose 
SPC section 4.5 does not mention a possible interaction with protease inhibitors:] 
4.5. Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Post-marketing cases have been reported indicating a potential interaction between ritonavir 
containing products and levothyroxine. Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) should be monitored in 
patients treated with levothyroxine at least the first month after starting and/or ending ritonavir 
treatment. 
 
Package leaflet 
2. What you need to know before you take [product] 
• [Levothyroxine-containing products whose package leaflet does not mention a possible interaction 
with protease inhibitors:] 
The following may affect the way that levothyroxine works: 
- Ritonavir - used to control HIV and chronic hepatitis C virus 
 
• [Ritonavir containing products:] 
There are medicines that may not mix with [product] because their effects could increase or decrease 
when taken together. In some cases your doctor may need to perform certain tests, change the dose 
or monitor you regularly. This is why you should tell your doctor if you are taking any medicines, 
including those you have bought yourself or herbal products, but it is especially important to mention 
these: 
- Levothyroxine (used to treat thyroid problems) 
 
• [Lopinavir/ritonavir containing products:] 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you or your child are taking, have recently taken or might take any 
other medicines. 
- Levothyroxine (used to treat thyroid problems) 
 

===PAGE===

 
 
PRAC recommendations on signals   
EMA/PRAC/59224/2018  Page 6/7 
 
 
2.  Recommendations for submission of supplementary 
information 
INN Signal (EPITT No) PRAC 
Rapporteur 
Action for MAH  MAH 
Biotin Interference with 
clinical laboratory tests 
(19156) 
Valerie 
Straßmann 
(DE) 
Supplementary 
information requested 
(submission by 11 April 
2018) 
Baxter 
Varenicline Loss of consciousness 
(19146) 
Doris 
Stenver 
(DK) 
Supplementary 
information requested 
(submission by 11 April 
2018) 
Pfizer Limited 
 
3.  Other recommendations 
INN Signal (EPITT No) PRAC 
Rapporteur 
Action for MAH  MAH 
Apixaban; 
dabigatran; 
edoxaban; 
rivaroxaban 
Cholesterol embolisms 
(19078) 
Menno van 
der Elst 
(NL) 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Boehringer 
Ingelheim 
International 
GmbH; Bristol-
Myers Squibb; 
Daiichi Sankyo 
Europe GmbH; 
Bayer AG 
Baricitinib Pneumonia (18950) Patrick 
Batty (UK) 
Submission of a 
variation; 
supplementary 
information in the PSUR 
(submission by 24 April 
2018) 
Eli Lilly 
Nederland B.V. 
Human 
coagulation 
(plasma-derived) 
factor VIII: 
human coagulation 
factor VIII 
(antihemophilic 
factor A); human 
coagulation factor 
VIII (inhibitor 
bypassing 
Inhibitor development 
in previously untreated 
patients (PUPs) with 
haemophilia A treated 
with plasma-derived vs 
recombinant 
coagulation factor VIII 
concentrates (18701) 
Brigitte 
Keller-
Stanislaws
ki (DE) 
Monitor in PSUR MAHs of human 
coagulation 
(plasma-
derived) factor 
VIII and 
recombinant 
factor VIII 

===PAGE===

 
 
PRAC recommendations on signals   
EMA/PRAC/59224/2018  Page 7/7 
 
 
INN Signal (EPITT No) PRAC 
Rapporteur 
Action for MAH  MAH 
fraction); human 
coagulation factor 
VIII, human von 
Willebrand factor; 
Recombinant 
factor VIII: 
antihemophilic 
factor 
(recombinant); 
efmoroctocog alfa; 
lonoctocog alfa; 
moroctocog alfa; 
octocog alfa; 
simoctocog alfa; 
susoctocog alfa; 
turoctocog alfa 
Paracetamol Paracetamol use in 
pregnancy and child 
neurodevelopment and 
effects on the 
urogenital apparatus 
(17796) 
Laurence 
de Fays 
(BE) 
No action at this stage Not applicable 
 