 
 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
An agency of the European Union   
   
Telephone +44 (0)20 3660 6000 Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
 
 
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.  
 
29 October 20181 
EMA/PRAC/689235/2018 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
PRAC recommendations on signals 
Adopted at the 1-4 October 2018 PRAC meeting 
This document provides an overview of the recommendations adopted by the Pharmacovigilance Risk 
Assessment Committee (PRAC) on the signals discussed during the meeting of 1-4 October 2018 
(including the signal European Pharmacovigilance Issues Tracking Tool [EPITT]2 reference numbers).  
PRAC recommendations to provide supplementary information are directly actionable by the concerned 
marketing authorisation holders (MAHs). PRAC recommendations for regulatory action (e.g. 
amendment of the product information) are submitted to the Committee for Medicinal Products for 
Human Use (CHMP) for endorsement when the signal concerns Centrally Authorised Products (CAPs), 
and to the Co-ordination Group for Mutual Recognition and Decentralised Procedures – Human (CMDh) 
for information in the case of Nationally Authorised Products (NAPs). Thereafter, MAHs are expected to 
take action according to the PRAC recommendations. 
When appropriate, the PRAC may also recommend the conduct of additional analyses by the Agency or 
Member States. 
MAHs are reminded that in line with Article 16(3) of Regulation No (EU) 726/2004 and Article 23(3) of 
Directive 2001/83/EC, they shall ensure that their product information is kept up to date with the 
current scientific knowledge including the conclusions of the assessment and recommendations 
published on the European Medicines Agency (EMA) website (currently acting as the EU medicines 
webportal).  
For CAPs, at the time of publication, PRAC recommendations for update of product information have 
been agreed by the CHMP at their plenary meeting (17-20 October 2018) and corresponding variations 
will be assessed by the CHMP.  
For nationally authorised medicinal products, it is the responsibility of the National Competent 
Authorities (NCAs) of the Member States to oversee that PRAC recommendations on signals are 
adhered to.  
Variations for CAPs are handled according to established EMA procedures. MAHs are referred to the 
available guidance. Variations for NAPs (including via mutual recognition and decentralised procedures) 
are handled at national level in accordance with the provisions of the Member States.  
                                                
1 Intended publication date. The actual publication date can be checked on the webpage dedicated to PRAC 
recommendations on safety signals. 
2 The relevant EPITT reference number should be used in any communication related to a signal. 

===PAGE===

 
 
PRAC recommendations on signals   
EMA/PRAC/689235/2018  Page 2/9 
 
 
 
The timeline recommended by PRAC for submission of variations following signal assessment is 
applicable to both innovator and generic medicinal products, unless otherwise specified. 
For procedural aspects related to the handling of PRAC recommendations on signals (e.g. submission 
requirements, contact points, etc.) please refer to the Questions and Answers on signal management. 

===PAGE===

 
 
PRAC recommendations on signals   
EMA/PRAC/689235/2018  Page 3/9 
 
 
1.  Recommendations for update of the product information3 
 
1.1.  Direct acting antivirals (DAAV)  indicated for the treatment of 
hepatitis C4 – Dysglycaemia 
 
Authorisation procedure Centralised 
EPITT No 19234 
PRAC rapporteur(s) Julie Williams (UK) 
Date of adoption 4 October 2018 
 
Recommendation [see also section 3] 
Having considered the available evidence in the literature and EudraVigilance, and the responses from 
the MAHs, the PRAC has agreed that the MAHs for direct-acting antivirals against hepatitis C (Daklinza, 
Epclusa, Exviera, Harvoni, Maviret, Sovaldi, Viekirax, Vosevi, Zepatier) should submit a variation within 
2 months, to amend the product information as described below (new text underlined): 
 
Summary of product characteristics 
4.4. Special warnings and precautions for use  
Use in diabetic patients 
Diabetics may experience improved glucose control, potentially resulting in symptomatic 
hypoglycaemia, after initiating HCV {direct acting antiviral / DAA} treatment. Glucose levels of diabetic 
patients initiating {direct acting antiviral / DAA}  therapy should be closely monitored, particularly 
within the first 3 months, and their diabetic medication modified when necessary. The physician in 
charge of the diabetic care of the patient should be informed when {direct acting antiviral / DAA} 
therapy is initiated. 
 
Package leaflet 
2. What you need to know before you take {product name} 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking this medicine if you: 
- Have diabetes. You may need closer monitoring of your blood glucose levels and/or adjustment of 
your diabetes medication after starting {product name}. Some diabetic patients have experienced 
low sugar levels in the blood (hypoglycaemia) after starting treatment with medicines like 
{product name}.  
 
 
                                                
3 Translations in all official EU languages of the new product information adopted by PRAC are also available to MAHs on the 
EMA website. 
4 Daclatasvir; dasabuvir; elbasvir, grazoprevir; glecaprevir, pibrentasvir; ledipasvir, sofosbuvir; ombitasvir, pariteprevir, 
ritonavir; sofosbuvir; sofosbuvir, velpatasvir; sofosbuvir, velpatasvir, voxilaprevir 

===PAGE===

 
 
PRAC recommendations on signals   
EMA/PRAC/689235/2018  Page 4/9 
 
 
1.2.  Dolutegravir – Evaluation of preliminary data from an observational 
study on birth outcomes in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected 
women 
 
Authorisation procedure Centralised 
EPITT No 19244 
PRAC rapporteur(s) Julie Williams (UK) 
Date of adoption 4 October 2018 
 
Recommendation [see also section 3] 
The PRAC considered the available evidence from the preliminary data of an observational study on 
birth outcomes in HIV-infected women – the Tsepamo study conducted in Botswana, as well as the 
additional data submitted by the MAH in relation to the safety of use of dolutegravir during pregnancy 
(from clinical trials, post-marketing experience and literature). The PRAC has agreed that the MAH of 
dolutegravir containing products – single ingredient and fixed combinations (ViiV Healthcare) should 
address the below recommendations. 
Update of the Product Information 
The MAH should submit a variation within 1 month of the publication of the PRAC recommendation, to 
amend the product information as described below. When more complete data from the Tsepamo 
study, as well as data from other sources (including the non-clinical studies) become available, the 
MAH should consider taking the appropriate steps, including submitting further variations as applicable, 
in order to more fully inform the present understanding about the risk of neural tube defects and the 
implications of the use of dolutegravir during pregnancy. 
Summary of product characteristics 
4.6. Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential  
Women of childbearing potential (WOCBP) should undergo pregnancy testing before initiation of 
dolutegravir. WOCBP who are taking dolutegravir should use effective contraception throughout 
treatment.  
Pregnancy   
Preliminary data from a surveillance study has suggested an increased incidence of neural tube defects 
(0.9%) in mothers exposed to dolutegravir at the time of conception compared with mothers exposed 
to non-dolutegravir containing regimens (0.1%). 
The incidence of neural tube defects in the general population ranges from 0.5-1 case per 1,000 live 
births (0.05-0.1%). As neural tube defects occur within the first 4 weeks of foetal development (at 
which time the neural tubes are sealed) this potential risk would concern women exposed to 

===PAGE===

 
 
PRAC recommendations on signals   
EMA/PRAC/689235/2018  Page 5/9 
 
 
dolutegravir at the time of conception and in early pregnancy. Due to the potential risk of neural tube 
defects, dolutegravir should not be used during the first trimester unless there is no alternative. 
More than 1000 outcomes from second and third trimester exposure in pregnant women indicate no 
evidence of increased risk of malformative and foeto/neonatal negative effects. However, as the 
mechanism by which dolutegravir may interfere in human pregnancy is unknown, the safety in use 
during the second and third trimester cannot be confirmed. Dolutegravir should only be used during 
the second and third trimester of pregnancy when the expected benefit justifies the potential risk to 
the foetus.  
In animal reproductive toxicology studies, no adverse development outcomes, including neural tube 
defects, were identified (see section 5.3). Dolutegravir was shown to cross the placenta in animals. 
 
Package leaflet 
2. What you need to know before you take {product name} 
Pregnancy  
If you are pregnant, if you become pregnant, or if you are planning to have a baby: 
-> Talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking {product name}. 
Taking {product name} at the time of becoming pregnant or during the first twelve weeks of 
pregnancy, may increase the risk of a type of birth defect, called neural tube defect, such as spina 
bifida (malformed spinal cord). 
If you could get pregnant while receiving {product name}, you need to use a reliable method of barrier 
contraception (for example, a condom) with other methods of contraception including oral (pill) or 
other hormonal contraceptives (for example, implants, injection), to prevent pregnancy. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you become pregnant or are planning to become pregnant. Your doctor 
will review your treatment. Do not discontinue {product name} without consulting your doctor, as this 
may harm you and your unborn child. 

===PAGE===

 
 
PRAC recommendations on signals   
EMA/PRAC/689235/2018  Page 6/9 
 
 
1.3.  Hormonal contraceptives5 – Suicidality with hormonal contraceptives 
following a recent publication 
 
Authorisation procedure Centralised and non-centralised 
EPITT No 19144 
PRAC rapporteur(s) Doris Stenver (DK) 
Date of adoption 4 October 2018 
 
Recommendation 
The PRAC considered that the limitations of the available data did not allow to clearly establish whether 
there is an increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviour associated with the use of hormonal 
contraceptives. However, it was recognised that depressed mood and depression are known to occur in 
association with the use of hormonal contraceptives. Depression is serious and can sometimes lead to 
suicidal thoughts and it was considered important to reflect the potential severity of the condition in 
the product information for hormonal contraceptives. Therefore, the PRAC has agreed that the MAHs 
for the hormonal contraceptives products are to submit a variation within 2 months, to amend the 
product information as described below (new text underlined):  
Summary of product characteristics 
4.4. Special warnings and precautions for use  
Depressed mood and depression are well-known undesirable effects of hormonal contraceptive use 
(see section 4.8). Depression can be serious and is a well-known risk factor for suicidal behaviour and 
suicide. Women should be advised to contact their physician in case of mood changes and depressive 
symptoms, including shortly after initiating the treatment. 
 
Package leaflet 
2. What you need to know before you take {product name} 
Warnings and precautions 
Psychiatric disorders: 
Some women using hormonal contraceptives including {product name} have reported depression or 
depressed mood. Depression can be serious and may sometimes lead to suicidal thoughts. If you 
experience mood changes and depressive symptoms contact your doctor for further medical advice as 
soon as possible. 
 
                                                
5 Chlormadinone, estradiol; chlormadinone acetate, ethinylestradiol ; conjugated estrogens, medrogestone ; conjugated 
estrogens, medroxyprogesterone acetate; conjugated estrogens, norgestrel; cyproterone, ethinylestradiol; cyproterone 
acetate, estradiol valerate; desogestrel; desogestrel ,ethinylestradiol; dienogest, estradiol; dienogest, ethinylestradiol; 
drospirenone, estradiol; drospirenone, ethinylestradiol; estradiol, estriol, levonorgestrel; estradiol, gestodene; estradiol, 
levonorgestrel; estradiol, medroxyprogesterone acetate; estradiol, nomegestrol acetate; estradiol, norethisterone; 
estradiol, norgestimate; estradiol (17-beta), progesterone; estradiol (17-beta), trimegestone; estradiol valerate, 
norgestrel; ethinylestradiol, etonogestrel; ethinylestradiol, etynodiol; ethinylestradiol, gestodene; ethinylestradiol, 
gestodene; ethinylestradiol, levonorgestrel; ethinylestradiol, lynestrenol; ethinylestradiol, norethisterone; ethinylestradiol, 
norgestimate; ethinylestradiol, norgestrel; levonorgestrel, ethinylestradiol; ethinylestradiol; levonorgestrel; 
medroxyprogesterone; mestranol, norethisterone; nomegestrol; nomegestrol acetate, estradiol; norelgestromin, ethinyl 
estradiol; norethisterone 

===PAGE===

 
 
PRAC recommendations on signals   
EMA/PRAC/689235/2018  Page 7/9 
 
 
1.4.  Teriflunomide – Dyslipidaemia 
 
Authorisation procedure Centralised 
EPITT No 19227 
PRAC rapporteur(s) Martin Huber (DE) 
Date of adoption 4 October 2018 
 
Recommendation 
Having considered the available evidence in EudraVigilance, the literature, clinical trials and the 
cumulative review by the MAH of Aubagio (Sanofi Genzyme) the PRAC has agreed that the MAH of 
Aubagio should submit a variation within 2 months, to amend the product information as described 
below (new text underlined): 
 
Summary of product characteristics 
 
4.8. Undesirable effects 
 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Frequency ‘Not known’’: Dyslipidaemia  
 
 
Package leaflet 
 
4. Possible side effects 
 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
 
•         abnormal levels of fats (lipids) in the blood 
 

===PAGE===

 
 
PRAC recommendations on signals   
EMA/PRAC/689235/2018  Page 8/9 
 
 
2.  Recommendations for submission of supplementary 
information 
INN Signal (EPITT No) PRAC 
Rapporteur 
Action for MAH  MAH 
Avelumab Pancreatitis (19291) Anette 
Kirstine 
Stark (DK) 
Assess in the next 
PSUR (submission by 1 
December 2018) 
Merck Europe 
B.V. 
Belimumab Lupus nephritis (19174) Ulla 
Wändel 
Liminga 
(SE) 
Supplementary 
information requested 
(submission by 26 
October 2018) 
Glaxo Group Ltd 
Olanzapine Gestational diabetes 
(19306) 
Kimmo 
Jaakkola 
(FI) 
Supplementary 
information requested 
(submission by 12 
December 2018) 
Eli Lilly 
Nederland B.V. 
Tocilizumab Facial paralysis (19295) Brigitte 
Keller-
Stanislaws
ki (DE) 
Supplementary 
information requested 
(submission by 12 
December 2018) 
Roche 
Registration 
GmbH 
3.  Other recommendations 
INN Signal (EPITT No) PRAC 
Rapporteur 
Action for MAH  MAH 
Adalimumab; 
infliximab 
Risk of lymphoma in 
patients with 
inflammatory bowel 
disease (19121) 
Ulla 
Wändel 
Liminga 
(SE) 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
MAHs of 
adalimumab-
containing and 
infliximab-
containing 
products 
Canagliflozin; 
dapagliflozin; 
empagliflozin; 
ertugliflozin 
Fournier’s gangrene 
(19308) 
Martin 
Huber (DE) 
Provide comments on 
proposed updates to 
the product 
information; provide 
comments on the need 
for additional risk 
minimisation measures, 
including the need for a 
Direct Healthcare 
Professional 
Communication (DHPC) 
(submission by 26 
October 2018) 
Janssen-Cilag 
International 
NV, 
AstraZeneca AB, 
Boehringer 
Ingelheim 
International 
GmbH, Merck 
Sharp & Dohme 
B.V. 

===PAGE===

 
 
PRAC recommendations on signals   
EMA/PRAC/689235/2018  Page 9/9 
 
 
INN Signal (EPITT No) PRAC 
Rapporteur 
Action for MAH  MAH 
Direct acting 
antivirals (DAAV)  
indicated for the 
treatment of 
hepatitis C6 
Dysglycaemia (19234) Julie 
Williams 
(UK) 
 See section 1.1 
 Monitor cases of 
hyperglycaemia in 
PSURs 
Bristol-Myers 
Squibb Pharma 
EEIG, Gilead 
Sciences Ireland 
UC, AbbVie 
Deutschland 
GmbH & Co. 
KG, Merck 
Sharp & Dohme 
B.V. 
Dolutegravir Evaluation of 
preliminary data from 
an observational study 
on birth outcomes in 
human 
immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV)-infected women 
(19244) 
Julie 
Williams 
(UK) 
 See section 1.2 
 Update the risk 
management plan 
(RMP) 
 Monitor pregnancy 
outcomes in future 
PSURs and provide 
supplementary 
information in the next 
PSUR (submission by 
27 March 2019) and/or 
following PSURs 
ViiV Healthcare 
B.V. 
Hormonal 
contraceptives 
Known association 
between hormonal 
contraceptives and a 
small increase in breast 
cancer following a 
recent publication 
(19143) 
Menno van 
der Elst 
(NL) 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
MAHs of 
hormonal 
contraceptive-
containing 
products 
Oxybutynin; 
carbamazepine 
Drug interaction 
between oxybutynin 
and carbamazepine 
resulting in seizures 
and carbamazepine 
overdose secondary to 
carbamazepine plasma 
level variations 
Laurence 
de Fays 
(BE) 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
MAHs of 
oxybutynin-
containing 
products and 
carbamazepine-
containing 
products 
Trastuzumab; 
trastuzumab 
emtansine; 
pertuzumab 
Multiple sclerosis 
relapse (19208) 
Doris 
Stenver 
(DK) 
Monitor in PSUR Roche 
Registration 
GmbH; Celltrion 
Healthcare 
Hungary Kft.; 
Samsung 
Bioepis UK Ltd 
 
                                                
6 Daclatasvir; dasabuvir; elbasvir, grazoprevir; glecaprevir, pibrentasvir; ledipasvir, sofosbuvir; ombitasvir, pariteprevir, 
ritonavir; sofosbuvir; sofosbuvir, velpatasvir; sofosbuvir, velpatasvir, voxilaprevir 