 
 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
An agency of the European Union   
   
Telephone +44 (0)20 3660 6000 Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5525 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
 
 
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
6 August 20181  
EMA/PRAC/414649/2018 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
New product information wording – Extracts from PRAC 
recommendations on signals 
Adopted at the 9-12 July 2018 PRAC 
The product information wording in this document is extracted from the document entitled ‘PRAC 
recommendations on signals’ which contains the whole text of the PRAC recommendations for product 
information update, as well as some general guidance on the handling of signals. It can be found here 
(in English only). 
New text to be added to the product information is underlined. Current text to be deleted is struck 
through. 
 
1.  Antiretrovirals – Autoimmune hepatitis (EPITT no 18956) 
List of antiretrovirals: abacavir; abacavir, dolutegravir, lamivudine; abacavir; abacavir, lamivudine, 
zidovudine; atazanavir; atazanavir, cobicistat; bictegravir, emtricitabine, tenofovir alafenamide; 
darunavir; darunavir, cobicistat; darunavir, cobicistat, emtricitabine, tenofovir alafenamide; 
didanosine; dolutegravir; dolutegravir, rilpivirine; efavirenz ; efavirenz, emtricitabine, tenofovir 
disoproxil; elvitegravir, cobicistat, emtricitabine, tenofovir alafenamide; elvitegravir, cobicistat, 
emtricitabine, tenofovir disoproxil; emtricitabine; emtricitabine, rilpivirine, tenofovir alafenamide; 
emtricitabine, rilpivirine, tenofovir disoproxil; emtricitabine, tenofovir alafenamide; emtricitabine, 
tenofovir disoproxil; enfuvirtide; etravirine; fosamprenavir; indinavir; lamivudine; lamivudine, 
tenofovir; lamivudine, zidovudine; lopinavir, ritonavir; maraviroc; nevirapine; raltegravir; rilpivirine; 
ritonavir; saquinavir; stavudine; tenofovir disoproxil; tipranavir; zidovudine 
 
Summary of product characteristics  
4.4. Special warnings and precautions for use 
Immune reactivation syndrome 
In HIV infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of initiation of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic 
                                                                 
1 Intended publication date. The actual publication date can be checked on the webpage dedicated to PRAC 
recommendations on safety signals. 

===PAGE===

 
 
New product information wording – Extracts from PRAC recommendations on signals  
EMA/PRAC/414649/2018 Page 2/2 
 
pathogens may arise and cause serious clinical conditions, or aggravation of symptoms. Typically, such 
reactions have been observed within the first few weeks or months of initiation of CART. Relevant 
examples are cytomegalovirus retinitis, generalised and/or focal mycobacterial infections, and 
Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia. Any inflammatory symptoms should be evaluated and treatment 
instituted when necessary. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease and autoimmune hepatitis) 
have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reactivation; however, the reported time to 
onset is more variable and these events can occur many months after initiation of treatment. 
 
4.8. Undesirable effects 
Immune reactivation syndrome 
In HIV infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of initiation of CART, an 
inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic infections may arise. Autoimmune 
disorders (such as Graves’ disease and autoimmune hepatitis) have also been reported; however, the 
reported time to onset is more variable and these events can occur many months after initiation of 
treatment (see section 4.4). 
 
2.  Human normal immunoglobulin for intravenous 
administration (IVIg) – Lupus-like syndrome and related 
terms (EPITT no 19098) 
 
Summary of product characteristics  
4.8. Undesirable effects 
Cases of reversible aseptic meningitis and rare cases of transient cutaneous reactions (including 
cutaneous lupus erythematosus - frequency unknown) have been observed with human normal 
immunoglobulin. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 