 
 
Page 1 of 6 
Food and Drug Administration 
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research 
Final Summary Minutes of the Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs Advisory 
Committee Meeting 
 
Location: Please note that due to the impact of this COVID-19 pandemic, all meeting 
participants joined this advisory committee meeting via an online teleconferencing platform. 
 
Topic: The committee discussed new drug application (NDA) 215887, for tofersen (BIIB067) 
intrathecal injection, submitted by Biogen Inc., for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 
(ALS) associated with a mutation in the superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) gene. 
 
These summary minutes for the March 22, 2023 meeting of the Peripheral and Central Nervous 
System Drugs Advisory Committee of the Food and Drug Administration were approved on 
__4/21/2023____. 
 
I certify that I attended the March 22, 2023 meeting of the Peripheral and Central Nervous 
System Drugs Advisory Committee (PCNS) of the Food and Drug Administration and that these 
minutes accurately reflect what transpired. 
 
 
       
__________ __/s/________________  __________ _/s/_________________ 
Jessica Seo, PharmD, MPH    Thomas J. Montine, MD, PhD 
Designated Federal Officer, PCNS   Chairperson, PCNS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE===

 
 
Page 2 of 6 
Final Summary Minutes of the Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs  
Advisory Committee Meeting 
March 22, 2023 
 
The Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee (PCNS) of the Food and 
Drug Administration, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, met on March 22, 2023. The 
meeting presentations were heard, viewed, captioned, and recorded through an online 
teleconferencing platform. Prior to the meeting, the members and temporary voting members 
were provided the briefing materials from the FDA and Biogen, Inc. The meeting was called to 
order by Thomas J. Montine, MD, PhD (Chairperson). The conflict of interest statement was 
read into the record by Jessica Seo, PharmD, MPH (Designated Federal Officer). There were 
approximately 1292 people online. There were a total of 26 Open Public Hearing (OPH) speaker 
presentations.  
 
A verbatim transcript will be available, in most instances, at approximately ten to twelve weeks 
following the meeting date.  
 
Agenda:  
 
The committee discussed new drug application (NDA) 215887, for tofersen (BIIB067) 
intrathecal injection, submitted by Biogen Inc., for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 
(ALS) associated with a mutation in the superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) gene. 
 
Attendance:  
 
Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee Members Present 
(Voting):  Robert C. Alexander, MD; Liana G. Apostolova, MD, MSc, FAAN, Richard J. 
Kryscio, PhD; Michelle M. Mielke, PhD; Thomas J. Montine, MD, PhD (Chairperson) 
 
Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee Members Not Present 
(Voting):  Merit E. Cudkowicz, MD  
 
Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee Member (Non-
Voting):  Michael Gold, MS, MD (Industry Representative) 
 
Temporary Members (Voting):  Klaus Romero, MD, MS, FCP; Tanya Simuni, MD, FAAN; 
David Weisman, MD; Michael Wilson (Patient Representative) 
 
FDA Participants (Non-Voting):  Teresa Buracchio, MD; Emily Freilich, MD  
 
Designated Federal Officer (Non-Voting):  Jessica Seo, PharmD, MPH 
 
Open Public Hearing Speakers Present:  Alison Burell; Raziel Green; Paul Melmeyer 
(Muscular Dystrophy Association); Robert Bucelli, MD, PhD; Senda Ajroud-Driss, MD; 
Cassandra Haddad; Peter Lawrence; Jean Swidler (Genetic ALS & FTD : End The Legacy); 
Larry Falivena; Connie M. Becker; Caroline Renko (PharmedOut); Abbi North; Blaine C. 

===PAGE===

March 22, 2023 
Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee Meeting 
Page 3 of 6 
Dangel; Chris Snow and Kelsie Snow; Lauren Webb, LCSW (Les Turner ALS Foundation); 
Tucker Olson (Olson ALS Foundation); Jessica Morris; Keith Mayl, MD, PhD; Brian Wallach 
and Sandra Abreyava; Todd Legg; Sarah Gascoigne; Calaneet Balas (ALS Association); Ravi 
Gupta, MD (Doctors for America); Reuben Mathew, MSPH; Julie Granning; Michelle Lorenz 
(Voices for ALS) 
 
The agenda was as follows:  
 
Call to Order Thomas J. Montine, MD 
Chairperson, PCNS 
 
Introduction of Committee and  
Conflict of Interest Statement 
 
Jessica Seo, PharmD, MPH 
Designated Federal Officer, PCNS 
 
FDA Introductory Comments  
 
Teresa Buracchio, MD 
Director (Acting), Office of Neuroscience (ON) 
Office of New Drugs (OND), CDER, FDA 
 
APPLICANT PRESENTATIONS 
 
Biogen, Inc. 
Introduction  
 
 
 
Toby Ferguson, MD, PhD 
Vice President, Head of Neuromuscular 
Development Unit 
Biogen 
 
Disease Background & Unmet 
Need   
 
Timothy M. Miller, MD, PhD 
David Clayson Professor of Neurology 
Washington University    
 
Efficacy    Stephanie Fradette, PharmD 
Clinical Development Lead and ALS 
Portfolio Head 
Biogen 
  
Safety Laura Fanning, MD 
Executive Medical Director, Global Medical Safety 
Biogen  
 
Clinical Perspective 
 
Timothy M. Miller, MD, PhD  
 
Conclusion Stephanie Fradette, PharmD 
  
Clarifying Questions to the Applicant 
 
 
LUNCH 
 
 

===PAGE===

March 22, 2023 
Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee Meeting 
Page 4 of 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FDA PRESENTATIONS  
 
FDA Summary Presentations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Emily Freilich, MD 
Cross-Discipline Team Lead 
Deputy Director (Acting) 
Division of Neurology 1 (DN1) 
ON, OND, CDER, FDA  
 
Tristan Massie, PhD 
Biostatistics Reviewer 
Division of Biostatistics 1 
Office of Biostatistics  
Office of Translational Sciences (OTS), CDER, FDA 
 
Xiaohan Cai, PhD 
Clinical Pharmacology Reviewer 
Division of Neuropsychiatric Pharmacology 
Office of Clinical Pharmacology (OCP) 
OTS, CDER, FDA  
 
Vishnu Sharma, PhD 
Pharmacometrics Reviewer 
Division of Pharmacometrics 
OCP, OTS, CDER, FDA 
 
Clarifying Questions to FDA 
 
 
BREAK 
 
 
OPEN PUBLIC HEARING 
 
 
BREAK 
 
 
Questions to the Committee/ 
Committee Discussion 
 
 
ADJOURNMENT  

===PAGE===

March 22, 2023 
Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee Meeting 
Page 5 of 6 
Questions to the Committee:  
 
1. DISCUSSION: Discuss whether the available evidence supports that a reduction in plasma 
neurofilament light chain (NfL) concentration observed in tofersen-treated patients with 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) secondary to a mutation in SOD1 (SOD1-ALS) is reasonably 
likely to predict clinical benefit for these patients.  
 
Committee Discussion: The Committee was collectively in agreement that the available 
evidence supports that a reduction in plasma NfL concentration is reasonably likely to 
predict clinical benefit in SOD1-ALS patients treated with tofersen. Committee members 
acknowledged that while the placebo-controlled study did not meet any of its pre-specified 
endpoints, the data unequivocally demonstrated an effect on the SOD1 protein and a 
reduction of plasma NfL concentrations, resulting in a strong pharmacodynamic signal and 
suggesting decreased injury to neurons. Many members pointed out the context of a rare 
disease such as SOD1-ALS where another placebo-controlled trial would not be feasible and 
were in agreement that the totality of the evidence was sufficient to support a reasonably 
likely predictive benefit of reduction in plasma NfL concentrations. Please see the transcript 
for details of the Committee’s discussion. 
 
2. VOTE: Is the available evidence sufficient to conclude that a reduction in plasma NfL 
concentration in tofersen-treated patients is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit of 
tofersen for treatment of patients with SOD1-ALS?  
 
Vote Result:   Yes:  9  No:  0  Abstain:  0 
 
Committee Discussion: The Committee was unanimously in agreement that the available 
evidence was sufficient to conclude that a reduction in plasma NfL concentration in tofersen-
treated patients is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit of tofersen in the treatment of 
patients with SOD1-ALS.  The Committee members cited reasons previously discussed in 
Question 1 as the rationale for their vote, with several members emphasizing the totality of 
the evidence was supportive of a reduction in plasma NfL concentrations as a biomarker or 
surrogate for clinical benefit. Please see the transcript for details of the Committee’s 
discussion. 
 
3. DISCUSSION: Discuss the strengths and limitations of the available clinical data from the 
placebo-controlled study and long term extension regarding the effectiveness of tofersen for 
SOD1-ALS.  
 
Committee Discussion: The Committee expressed agreement on the need for additional data 
to be able to conclude effectiveness of tofersen for the treatment of SOD1-ALS.  There was a 
strong consensus that the placebo-controlled study failed to demonstrate evidence of 
tofersen’s effectiveness for SOD1-ALS. However, many members agreed the data from the 
long-term extension study appears to be suggestive of tofersen’s clinical effect, though not 
conclusive. A couple of members noted the limited number of events observed in the 
available data, and another member expressed concerns with the lack of a placebo group, as 
limitations of the long-term extension trial. Please see the transcript for details of the 
Committee’s discussion. 

===PAGE===

March 22, 2023 
Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee Meeting 
Page 6 of 6 
 
4. VOTE: Does the clinical data from the placebo-controlled study and available long-term 
extension study results, with additional supporting results from the effects on relevant biomarkers 
(i.e., changes in plasma NfL concentration and/or reductions in SOD1), provide convincing 
evidence of the effectiveness of tofersen in the treatment of patients with SOD1-ALS?  
 
Vote Result:   Yes:  3  No:  5  Abstain:  1 
 
Committee Discussion: A slight majority of the Committee members voted “No,” agreeing 
that the clinical data from the placebo-controlled study and available long term extension 
results, with additional supporting results from the effects on relevant biomarkers (i.e., 
changes in plasma NfL concentration and/or reductions in SOD1), did not provide 
convincing evidence of effectiveness for tofersen in the treatment of patients with SOD1-ALS. 
These members cited the failure of the placebo-controlled trial to meet its pre-specified 
endpoints as the basis for their vote, with a couple of members noting the evidence presented 
meets the standards for accelerated approval, but not traditional approval.  
 
The members who voted “Yes” acknowledged the difficulty of their decision and noted there 
were aspects of the data presented that suggested strong clinical evidence of tofersen’s 
benefit. One member also cited the unmet need and seriousness of SOD1-ALS as a 
contributing factor to their decision, while another member expressed concerns about the 
financial burden for patients due to lack of payer coverage for tofersen if it were to be 
granted accelerated approval instead of full approval.  
 
The member who abstained cited the pre-competitive and non-competitive nature of his work 
as the reason for his abstention. Please see the transcript for details of the Committee’s 
discussion. 
 
5. DISCUSSION: Discuss the overall benefit-risk assessment for tofersen in patients with 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) secondary to a mutation in SOD1 (SOD1-ALS). If the 
available evidence supports a benefit, discuss if the risks appear to be acceptable given the 
observed treatment benefit. If the benefit-risk assessment does not appear favorable, discuss what 
additional data would be needed for the benefit-risk assessment to be favorable.  
 
Committee Discussion: The panel members were in consensus that there was an overall 
positive benefit-risk profile for tofersen in patients with ALS secondary to a mutation in 
SOD1. Members acknowledged that while there were some serious neurologic adverse events 
reported in the studies, they appeared to be relatively infrequent and manageable. Some 
panel members noted that given the devastating nature of SOD1-ALS, patients would likely 
be willing to endure the treatment-associated risks, and other members pointed out some 
adverse events could be mitigated by ensuring proper training on drug administration. 
Therefore, the committee members were in agreement that the overall adverse event profile, 
in the context of the seriousness of the illness, was supportive of a favorable benefit-risk 
assessment for treatment of SOD1-ALS patients with tofersen. Please see the transcript for 
details of the Committee’s discussion. 
 
The meeting was adjourned at approximately 5:31 p.m. ET. 