 
 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
An agency of the European Union   
   
Telephone +44 (0)20 3660 6000 Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
 
 
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.  
 
3 April 20181 
EMA/PRAC/136563/2018 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
PRAC recommendations on signals 
Adopted at the 5-8 March 2018 PRAC meeting 
This document provides an overview of the recommendations adopted by the Pharmacovigilance Risk 
Assessment Committee (PRAC) on the signals discussed during the meeting of 5-8 March 2018 
(including the signal European Pharmacovigilance Issues Tracking Tool [EPITT]2 reference numbers).  
PRAC recommendations to provide supplementary information are directly actionable by the concerned 
marketing authorisation holders (MAHs). PRAC recommendations for regulatory action (e.g. 
amendment of the product information) are submitted to the Committee for Medicinal Products for 
Human Use (CHMP) for endorsement when the signal concerns Centrally Authorised Products (CAPs), 
and to the Co-ordination Group for Mutual Recognition and Decentralised Procedures – Human (CMDh) 
for information in the case of Nationally Authorised Products (NAPs). Thereafter, MAHs are expected to 
take action according to the PRAC recommendations. 
When appropriate, the PRAC may also recommend the conduct of additional analyses by the Agency or 
Member States. 
MAHs are reminded that in line with Article 16(3) of Regulation No (EU) 726/2004 and Article 23(3) of 
Directive 2001/83/EC, they shall ensure that their product information is kept up to date with the 
current scientific knowledge including the conclusions of the assessment and recommendations 
published on the European Medicines Agency (EMA) website (currently acting as the EU medicines 
webportal).  
For CAPs, at the time of publication, PRAC recommendations for update of product information have 
been agreed by the CHMP at their plenary meeting (19-22 March 2018) and corresponding variations 
will be assessed by the CHMP.  
For nationally authorised medicinal products, it is the responsibility of the National Competent 
Authorities (NCAs) of the Member States to oversee that PRAC recommendations on signals are 
adhered to.  
Variations for CAPs are handled according to established EMA procedures. MAHs are referred to the 
available guidance. Variations for NAPs (including via mutual recognition and decentralised procedures) 
are handled at national level in accordance with the provisions of the Member States.  
                                                
1 Intended publication date. The actual publication date can be checked on the webpage dedicated to PRAC 
recommendations on safety signals. 
2 The relevant EPITT reference number should be used in any communication related to a signal. 

===PAGE===

 
 
PRAC recommendations on signals   
EMA/PRAC/136563/2018  Page 2/6 
 
 
 
The timeline recommended by PRAC for submission of variations following signal assessment is 
applicable to both innovator and generic medicinal products, unless otherwise specified. 
For procedural aspects related to the handling of PRAC recommendations on signals (e.g. submission 
requirements, contact points, etc.) please refer to the Questions and Answers on signal management. 

===PAGE===

 
 
PRAC recommendations on signals   
EMA/PRAC/136563/2018  Page 3/6 
 
 
1.  Recommendations for update of the product information3 
 
1.1.  Cefalexin – Acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP) 
Authorisation procedure Non-centralised 
EPITT No 18911 
PRAC rapporteur(s) Dolores Montero (ES) 
Date of adoption 8 March 2018 
 
Recommendation 
Having considered the available evidence in EudraVigilance and in the literature with regards to the 
risk of cefalexin with acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), the PRAC has agreed that 
that the MAH(s) of cefalexin-containing medicinal products should submit a variation within 2 months, 
to amend the product information as described below (new text underlined): 
 
Summary of product characteristics 
4.4. Special warnings and precautions for use 
Acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP) has been reported in association with cefalexin 
treatment. At the time of prescription patients should be advised of the signs and symptoms and 
monitored closely for skin reactions. If signs and symptoms suggestive of these reactions appear, 
cefalexin should be withdrawn immediately and an alternative treatment considered. Most of these 
reactions occurred most likely in the first week during treatment. 
 
4.8. Undesirable effects 
Table of ADRs:  
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders (frequency: not known) 
Acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP) 
  
Package leaflet 
2. What do you need to know before you use cefalexin 
TELL YOUR DOCTOR BEFORE TAKING CEFALEXIN: 
• If you have ever developed a severe skin rash or skin peeling, blistering and/or mouth sores after 
taking cefalexin or other antibacterials 
Warnings and precautions – Take special care with cefalexin: 
Acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP) has been reported with the use of cefalexin. AGEP 
appears at the initiation of treatment as a red, scaly widespread rash with bumps under the skin and 
                                                
3 Translations in all official EU languages of the new product information adopted by PRAC are also available to MAHs on the 
EMA website. 

===PAGE===

 
 
PRAC recommendations on signals   
EMA/PRAC/136563/2018  Page 4/6 
 
 
blisters accompanied by fever. The most common location: mainly localized on the skin folds, trunk, 
and upper extremities. The highest risk for occurrence of this serious skin reaction is within the first 
week of treatment. If you develop a serious rash or another of these skin symptoms, stop taking 
cefalexin and contact your doctor or seek medical attention immediately. 
 
4. Possible side effects 
Frequency not known: 
A red, scaly widespread rash with bumps under the skin and blisters accompanied by fever at the 
initiation of treatment (acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis). Stop using cefalexin if you 
develop these symptoms and contact your doctor or seek medical attention immediately. See also 
section 2. 
 
1.2.  Norepinephrine – Stress cardiomyopathy 
 
Authorisation procedure Non-centralised 
EPITT No 19172 
PRAC rapporteur(s) Almath Spooner (IE) 
Date of adoption 8 March 2018 
 
Recommendation 
Having considered the available evidence in EudraVigilance and in the literature, the PRAC has agreed 
that the MAH(s) of norepinephrine containing medicinal products should submit a variation within 2 
months, to amend the product information as described below (new text underlined): 
  
Summary of product characteristics 
  
4.8. Undesirable effects 
  
Cardiac disorders 
  
Frequency ‘not known’: Stress cardiomyopathy 
  
  
Package leaflet 
  
No update to the package leaflet is considered necessary as the main symptoms of stress 
cardiomyopathy are already adequately reflected in Section 4 - Possible side effects. 
 

===PAGE===

 
 
PRAC recommendations on signals   
EMA/PRAC/136563/2018  Page 5/6 
 
 
2.  Recommendations for submission of supplementary 
information 
INN Signal (EPITT No) PRAC 
Rapporteur 
Action for MAH  MAH 
Antiretrovirals4 Autoimmune hepatitis 
(18956) 
Ana Sofia 
Diniz 
Martins 
(PT) 
Supplementary 
information requested 
(submission by 8 May 
2018) 
AbbVie Ltd, 
Boehringer 
Ingelheim 
International 
GmbH, Bristol-
Myers Squibb, 
Gilead Sciences 
International 
Limited, 
Janssen-Cilag 
International 
N.V., Merck 
Sharp & Dohme 
Ltd, Roche 
Registration 
Limited, ViiV 
Healthcare 
Clopidogrel Insulin autoimmune 
syndrome (19155) 
Márcia 
Silva (PT) 
Supplementary 
information requested 
(submission by 8 May 
2018) 
Sanofi Clir SNC 
Pembrolizumab Cholangitis sclerosing 
(19154) 
Sabine 
Straus (NL) 
Assess in the next 
PSUR (submission by 
12 May 2018) 
Merck Sharp & 
Dohme Limited 
 
                                                
4 Abacavir; abacavir / lamivudine / zidovudine; abacavir / lamivudine; abacavir / dolutegravir / lamivudine; atazanavir; 
atazanavir / cobicistat; cobicistat; darunavir; darunavir / cobicistat; darunavir / cobicistat / emtricitabine / tenofovir 
alafenamide; didanosine; dolutegravir; efavirenz; efavirenz / emtricitabine / tenofovir disoproxil fumarate; elvitegravir / 
cobicistat / emtricitabine / tenofovir alafenamide; elvitegravir / cobicistat / emtricitabine / tenofovir disoproxil fumarate; 
emtricitabine; emtricitabine / rilpivirine / tenofovir alafenamide; emtricitabine / rilpivirine /tenofovir disoproxil fumarate; 
emtricitabine / tenofovir alafenamide; emtricitabine / tenofovir disoproxil fumarate; enfuvirtide; etravirine; fosamprenavir; 
indinavir; lamivudine; lamivudine / zidovudine; lopinavir / ritonavir; maraviroc; nevirapine; raltegravir; rilpivirine; 
ritonavir; saquinavir; stavudine; tenofovir disoproxil fumarate; tipranavir; zidovudine. 

===PAGE===

 
 
PRAC recommendations on signals   
EMA/PRAC/136563/2018  Page 6/6 
 
 
3.  Other recommendations 
INN Signal (EPITT No) PRAC 
Rapporteur 
Action for MAH  MAH 
Amitriptyline Dry eye (19173) Agni Kapou 
(GR) 
Provide comments on 
proposed updates to 
the product information 
(submission by 23 
March 2018) 
MAHs of 
amitriptyline-
containing 
medicinal 
products 
Hormonal 
contraceptives 
Known association 
between hormonal 
contraceptives and a 
small increase in breast 
cancer following a 
recent publication 
(19143) 
Menno van 
der Elst 
(NL) 
No action at this stage Not applicable 
 