 
 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
An agency of the European Union   
   
Telephone +44 (0)20 3660 6000 Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
 
 
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.  
 
9 July 20181 
EMA/PRAC/397086/2018 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
PRAC recommendations on signals 
Adopted at the 11-14 June 2018 PRAC meeting 
This document provides an overview of the recommendations adopted by the Pharmacovigilance Risk 
Assessment Committee (PRAC) on the signals discussed during the meeting of 11-14 June 2018 
(including the signal European Pharmacovigilance Issues Tracking Tool [EPITT]2 reference numbers).  
PRAC recommendations to provide supplementary information are directly actionable by the concerned 
marketing authorisation holders (MAHs). PRAC recommendations for regulatory action (e.g. 
amendment of the product information) are submitted to the Committee for Medicinal Products for 
Human Use (CHMP) for endorsement when the signal concerns Centrally Authorised Products (CAPs), 
and to the Co-ordination Group for Mutual Recognition and Decentralised Procedures – Human (CMDh) 
for information in the case of Nationally Authorised Products (NAPs). Thereafter, MAHs are expected to 
take action according to the PRAC recommendations. 
When appropriate, the PRAC may also recommend the conduct of additional analyses by the Agency or 
Member States. 
MAHs are reminded that in line with Article 16(3) of Regulation No (EU) 726/2004 and Article 23(3) of 
Directive 2001/83/EC, they shall ensure that their product information is kept up to date with the 
current scientific knowledge including the conclusions of the assessment and recommendations 
published on the European Medicines Agency (EMA) website (currently acting as the EU medicines 
webportal).  
For CAPs, at the time of publication, PRAC recommendations for update of product information have 
been agreed by the CHMP at their plenary meeting (25-28 June 2018) and corresponding variations 
will be assessed by the CHMP.  
For nationally authorised medicinal products, it is the responsibility of the National Competent 
Authorities (NCAs) of the Member States to oversee that PRAC recommendations on signals are 
adhered to.  
Variations for CAPs are handled according to established EMA procedures. MAHs are referred to the 
available guidance. Variations for NAPs (including via mutual recognition and decentralised procedures) 
are handled at national level in accordance with the provisions of the Member States.  
                                                
1 Intended publication date. The actual publication date can be checked on the webpage dedicated to PRAC 
recommendations on safety signals. 
2 The relevant EPITT reference number should be used in any communication related to a signal. 

===PAGE===

 
 
PRAC recommendations on signals   
EMA/PRAC/397086/2018  Page 2/6 
 
 
 
The timeline recommended by PRAC for submission of variations following signal assessment is 
applicable to both innovator and generic medicinal products, unless otherwise specified. 
For procedural aspects related to the handling of PRAC recommendations on signals (e.g. submission 
requirements, contact points, etc.) please refer to the Questions and Answers on signal management. 

===PAGE===

 
 
PRAC recommendations on signals   
EMA/PRAC/397086/2018  Page 3/6 
 
 
1.  Recommendations for update of the product information3 
 
1.1.  Nabumetone – Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic 
symptoms (DRESS) 
Authorisation procedure Non-centralised 
EPITT No 19241 
PRAC rapporteur(s) Sabine Straus (NL) 
Date of adoption 14 June 2018 
 
Recommendation 
Having considered the available evidence in EudraVigilance (i.e. well-documented post-marketing 
spontaneous cases) with regards to the risk of Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptom 
(DRESS) with nabumetone, the PRAC has agreed that the MAH(s) of nabumetone-containing medicinal 
product(s) should submit a variation within 2 months, to amend the product information as described 
below (new text underlined, text to be removed struck-through):   
 
Summary of product characteristics 
4.4. Special warnings and precautions for use 
Serious skin reactions, some of them fatal, including exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome 
(SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms 
(DRESS), which can be life-threatening or fatal, have been reported very rarely in association with the 
use of NSAIDs, including nabumetone (see section 4.8). 
At the time of prescription patients should be advised of the signs and symptoms and monitored 
closely for skin reactions. If signs and symptoms suggestive of these reactions appear, nabumetone 
should be withdrawn immediately and an alternative treatment considered (as appropriate). 
Patients appear to be at highest risk of these reactions early in the course of therapy, the onset of the 
reaction occurring in the majority of cases within the first two months of treatment. Nabumetone 
should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash, mucosal lesions or any other sign of 
hypersensitivity. 
If the patient has developed a serious reaction such as SJS, TEN or DRESS with the use of 
nabumetone, treatment with nabumetone must not be restarted in this patient at any time. 
 
4.8. Undesirable effects 
Summary of safety profile 
Severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs), including exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic 
symptoms (DRESS) have been reported in association with nabumetone treatment (see section 4.4). 
                                                
3 Translations in all official EU languages of the new product information adopted by PRAC are also available to MAHs on the 
EMA website. 

===PAGE===

 
 
PRAC recommendations on signals   
EMA/PRAC/397086/2018  Page 4/6 
 
 
Table of ADRs 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Very rare: Bullous reactions including toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens Johnson syndrome, drug 
reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms, erythema multiforme, angioedema, 
pseudoporphyria, alopecia 
 
Package leaflet 
4. Possible side effects 
Widespread rash, high body temperature, liver enzyme elevations, blood abnormalities (eosinophilia), 
enlarged lymph nodes and other body organs involvement (drug reaction with eosinophilia and 
systemic symptoms which is also known as DRESS or drug hypersensitivity syndrome). Stop using 
<medicine> if you develop these symptoms and contact your doctor or seek medical attention 
immediately. See also section 2. 
 
1.2.  Varenicline – Loss of consciousness 
Authorisation procedure Centralised 
EPITT No 19146 
PRAC rapporteur(s) Doris Stenver (DK) 
Date of adoption 14 June 2018 
 
Recommendation 
Having considered the available evidence in EudraVigilance and in the literature with regards the risk of 
loss of consciousness, the PRAC has agreed that the MAH for Champix (Pfizer Limited) should submit a 
variation within 2 months, to amend the product information as described below (new text underlined, 
text to be removed struck-through): 
Summary of product characteristics 
4.7. Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
CHAMPIX may have minor or moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
CHAMPIX may cause dizziness, somnolence and transient loss of consciousness, and therefore may 
influence the ability to drive and use machines. Patients are advised not to drive, operate complex 
machinery or engage in other potentially hazardous activities until it is known whether this medicinal 
product affects their ability to perform these activities. 
 
4.8. Undesirable effects 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common   Headache 
Common   Somnolence, dizziness, dysgeusia 
Uncommon   Seizure, tremor, lethargy, hypoaesthesia 
Rare    Cerebrovascular accident, hypertonia, dysarthria, coordination abnormal, 
hypogeusia, circadian rhythm sleep disorder 
Not known   Transient loss of consciousness 

===PAGE===

 
 
PRAC recommendations on signals   
EMA/PRAC/397086/2018  Page 5/6 
 
 
Package leaflet 
2. What you need to know before you take CHAMPIX 
Driving and using machines 
CHAMPIX may be linked with produce dizziness, sleepiness and transient loss of consciousness. You 
should not drive, operate complex machinery or engage in any other potentially hazardous activities 
until you know whether this medicine affects your ability to perform these activities. 
 
4. Possible side effects 
 
- Not known 
o Transient loss of consciousness 
 
2.  Recommendations for submission of supplementary 
information 
INN Signal (EPITT No) PRAC 
Rapporteur 
Action for MAH  MAH 
Biotin Interference with 
clinical laboratory tests 
(19156) 
Valerie 
Straßmann 
(DE) 
Supplementary 
information requested 
(submission 29 August 
2018) 
Essential 
Pharmaceuticals
, Fresenius 
Kabi, Alfasigma, 
Baxter, Quiris 
Healthcare, Dr. 
Kleine Pharma, 
Krauterhaus 
Sanct Bernhard, 
Bio-H-Tin 
Pharma, 
FAR.G.IM, Bayer 
Carbimazole; 
thiamazole 
New information on the 
known risk of birth 
defects and neonatal 
disorders in case of 
exposure during 
pregnancy (19238) 
Valerie 
Straßmann 
(DE) 
Supplementary 
information requested 
(submission 29 August 
2018) 
Amdipharm, 
Aspen pharma, 
Meda, Sandoz, 
Takeda, 
Sanóbia-centro 
de saúde e 
estética, 
Teofarma, Uni-
pharma Kleon 
Tsetis 
Dolutegravir Evaluation of 
preliminary data from 
an observational study 
on birth outcomes in 
human 
immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV)-infected women 
(19244) 
Julie 
Williams 
(UK) 
Supplementary 
information requested 
(submission 29 August 
2018) 
 
 
ViiV Healthcare 
B.V. 

===PAGE===

 
 
PRAC recommendations on signals   
EMA/PRAC/397086/2018  Page 6/6 
 
 
INN Signal (EPITT No) PRAC 
Rapporteur 
Action for MAH  MAH 
Dulaglutide; 
exenatide; 
liraglutide 
Diabetic ketoacidosis 
(19237) 
Amelia 
Cupelli (IT) 
Supplementary 
information requested 
(submission 29 August 
2018) 
Eli Lilly 
Nederland B.V., 
AstraZeneca AB, 
Novo Nordisk 
A/S 
Nivolumab Keratoacanthoma 
(19250) 
Brigitte 
Keller-
Stanislaws
ki (DE) 
Assess in the next 
PSUR (submission by 
11 September 2018) 
Bristol-Myers 
Squibb Pharma 
EEIG 
Rivaroxaban Acquired haemophilia 
(19240) 
Qun-Ying 
Yue (SE) 
Assess in the next 
PSUR (submission by 
24 November 2018) 
Bayer AG 
Tacrolimus 
(systemic 
formulations) 
Hepatitis E infection 
(19246) 
Almath 
Spooner 
(IE) 
Assess in the ongoing 
PSUR (submission by 1 
August 2018) 
Astellas Pharma 
Europe B.V. 
Xylometazoline Serious ventricular 
arrhythmia in patients 
with long QT syndrome 
(19242) 
Zane 
Neikena 
(LV) 
Supplementary 
information requested 
(submission 29 August 
2018) 
GlaxoSmithKline 
 
3.  Other recommendations 
INN Signal (EPITT No) PRAC 
Rapporteur 
Action for MAH  MAH 
Hydrochlorothiazi
de 
Skin cancer (19138) Kirsti 
Villikka 
(FI) 
Submit proposal for 
product information 
updates (submission by 
25 June 2018) 
MAHs of 
originator 
products 
containing 
hydrochlorothiaz
ide 
 