
Drug Safety-related Labeling Changes (SrLC)
Share
Tweet
Linkedin
Email
Print
Get Email Alerts
 | 
Guide
Drug Safety-related Labeling Changes (SrLC) Database
ANDA
Abbreviated New Drug Application
BLA
Biologics License Application
CDER
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research
MG
Medication Guide
NDA
New Drug Application
PCI
Patient Counseling Information
PI
Patient Information
PLR
Physician Labeling Rule
PLLR
Pregnancy and Lactation Labeling Rule
Italics
For the most part, 
italics
 indicate an FDA comment such as:
Additions and/or revisions underlined
 These 
italics
 usually appear at the beginning of the section.
 In some cases, 
italics
 may be an inherent part of the label, and will most often appear in the body of the section.
Underlines
Any text that is 
underlined
 indicates text that has been added or revised. There are exceptions where 
underlining
 occurs in a section subtitle or heading. This is the case when there is just one word 
underlined
 in the body of the text.
Sections
BW
Box Warning
WP
Warnings and Precautions all in one section (PLR-format)
 Warnings as one section (pre-PLR format)
 Precautions as one section (pre-PLR format)
AR
Adverse Reactions 
(in pre-PLR format, this may be a subheading under precautions).
DI
Drug Interactions 
(in pre-PLR format, this may be a subheading under precautions).
USP
Use in Specific Populations
(Inclusive on one or more of the following: Pregnancy; Lactation (PLLR- format); Nursing Mothers (pre-PLLR format); Females and Males of Reproductive Potential (PLLR format only); Pediatric Use, Geriatric Use, Renal Impairment, Hepatic Impairment, Sex, Race (these last six may be a subheading of precautions if label in pre-PLLR format.
PCI/PI/MG
Patient Counseling Information
 (PLR format only) - summarizes the information that a health care provider should convey to a patient (or caregiver when applicable) when a counseling discussion is taking place (e.g., a physician prescribing a drug during an office visit, a nurse providing discharge instructions at a hospital, or a pharmacist conveying information at a pharmacy).
Patient Information
 - FDA approved patient labeling.
Medication Guide
 - paper handouts that come with many prescription medicines. The guides address issues that are specific to particular drugs and drug classes, and they contain FDA-approved information that can help patients avoid serious adverse events. 
Only NDAs and CDER regulated BLAs are included in this database. ANDAs are not included.
Applications that remain active, even if the product has been discontinued, undergo safety-related labeling changes.
Close
SPINRAZA 
(NDA-209531)
(
NUSINERSEN SODIUM
)
Safety-related Labeling Changes Approved by FDA Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER)
Download Data
Expand all
03/27/2026
(SUPPL-16)
Approved Drug Label (PDF)
 5
 Warnings and Precautions
5.1 Thrombocytopenia and Coagulation Abnormalities
Additions and/or
revisions underlined:
Coagulation abnormalities and thrombocytopenia, including acute severe
thrombocytopenia, have been observed after administration of some
antisense oligonucleotides.
In the sham-controlled studies for
patients with infantile-onset 
(Study 1)
 and later-onset 
(Study 2)
SMA 
who received Low Dose Regimen
[see
Clinical Studies (14.1,14.2)]
, 24 of 146 (16%) SPINRAZA-treated patients
with high, normal,
or unknown platelet
count at baseline
developed a platelet level below the lower limit of normal, compared to
10 of 72 (14%) sham-controlled patients.
In
Study 2, two SPINRAZA-treated patients
developed platelet counts less than 50,000 cells per
microliter, with a lowest level of 10,000 cells per microliter recorded on
study day 28.
In patients
who received High Dose Regimen, decreases
in platelet counts were also observed.
Because of the risk of thrombocytopenia and coagulation abnormalities from SPINRAZA,
patients may be at increased risk of bleeding complications.
Perform a platelet count and coagulation laboratory testing at baseline and prior to each
administration of SPINRAZA and as clinically needed.
5.2 Renal Toxicity
Additions and/or
revisions underlined:
Renal toxicity, including potentially fatal glomerulonephritis, has been observed
after administration of some antisense oligonucleotides.
SPINRAZA is present in and excreted
by the kidney 
[see Clinical Pharmacology
(12.3)]
. 
In Study 1 and Study
2
, 71 of 123 (58%) of SPINRAZA-treated patients had elevated
urine protein, compared to 22
of 65 (34%) sham-controlled patients. Conduct quantitative spot urine protein
testing (preferably using a first morning urine specimen) at baseline and prior
to each dose of SPINRAZA. For urinary protein concentration greater than 0.2
g/L, consider repeat testing and further evaluation.
 6
 Adverse Reactions
6.1 Clinical
Trials Experience
Extensive changes; please refer to label for
complete information
 8
 Use in Specific Populations
8.4 Pediatric Use
Additions and/or
revisions underlined:
The safety
and effectiveness of SPINRAZA in pediatric patients
from newborn to 17 years
have been established 
[see
Clinical Studies (14.1)].
Juvenile Animal
Toxicity Data
In intrathecal toxicity studies in
juvenile monkeys, administration of nusinersen (0, 0.3, 1, or 3 mg/dose for 14
weeks and 0, 0.3, 1, or 4 mg/dose for 53 weeks) resulted in brain
histopathology (neuronal vacuolation and necrosis/cellular debris in the hippocampus) at the mid and high doses
and acute, transient deficits in lower spinal reflexes at the high dose in each
study. In addition, possible neurobehavioral deficits were observed on a
learning and memory test at the high dose in
the 53-week monkey
study. 
In a combined 6- and 13-week
toxicity study in juvenile monkeys, intrathecal administration of
nusinersen at higher doses (0, 5, 10, or 15 mg/dose) resulted in additional
acute, transient effects, including limited use of limbs at the mid and high
dose and uncoordinated movement at the high dose.
 The no-effect dose for neurohistopathology in monkeys (0.3
mg/dose) is approximately equivalent to 
and lower than
 the 
recommended
clinical maintenance doses of 12 and 28 mg, respectively,
 when calculated
on 
annual dose 
basis and corrected for species differences in CSF
volume.
04/10/2024
(SUPPL-14)
Approved Drug Label (PDF)
 6
 Adverse Reactions
6.3 Postmarketing Experience
Additions and/or
revisions underlined:
The following
adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of SPINRAZA. Because these reactions are
reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always
possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal
relationship to drug exposure.
Serious infections associated with lumbar puncture, such as meningitis,
have been 
reported
. Hydrocephalus, aseptic meningitis, hypersensitivity reactions (e.g.
angioedema, urticaria, rash)
, and arachnoiditis
 have also
been reported.
06/16/2020
(SUPPL-10)
Approved Drug Label (PDF)
 6
 Adverse Reactions
Clinical Trials Experience
(Additions and/or
revisions underlined)
In clinical studies, 346
 patients (
47
% male, 
76
% Caucasian
) were
 treated with
SPINRAZA,
 including 
314 
exposed for at least 6 months
,
258
 exposed for at least 1 
year, and 138 exposed for at
least 2 years
. The safety
of SPINRAZA was studied in presymptomatic infants with SMA; pediatric patients (approximately 3 days to 16 years of age at first dose)
with symptomatic SMA; in a sham-controlled
trial in infants with symptomatic SMA (Study 1; n=80 for SPINRAZA, n=41 for
control); in a sham-controlled trial in children with symptomatic SMA (Study 2; n=84 for SPINRAZA,
n=42 for control); in 
an
 open-label 
study
 in presymptomatic
infants
 (Study 3, n=25)
 and 
other studies in
 symptomatic
infants (n=
54)
 and later-onset patients (n=
103
).
In Study 1, 58 patients were exposed
for at least 6 months and 28
patients were exposed for at least 12
months.  
Immunogenicity
(Additions and/or
revisions underlined)
The immunogenic response to nusinersen
was 
evaluated
 in 
294
patients with post-baseline plasma samples for anti-drug
antibodies (ADAs). 
Seventeen
 patients (6%) developed treatment- emergent
ADAs, of which 
5
 were transient, 
12
 were
considered to be persistent.
06/17/2019
(SUPPL-7)
Approved Drug Label (PDF)
 6
 Adverse Reactions
6.3 Postmarketing Experience
(Additions
and/or revisions underlined)
The
following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of
SPINRAZA. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of
uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency
or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure.
Serious
infections 
associated
 with lumbar puncture, 
such as meningitis, have
been observed. Hydrocephalus, aseptic meningitis, and hypersensitivity
reactions (e.g. angioedema, urticaria, rash) have also been reported.
06/17/2019
(SUPPL-8)
Approved Drug Label (PDF)
 Boxed Warning
6.3 Postmarketing Experience
(Additions
and/or revisions underlined)
The
following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of
SPINRAZA. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of
uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency
or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure.
Serious
infections 
associated
 with lumbar puncture, 
such as meningitis, have
been observed. Hydrocephalus, aseptic meningitis, and hypersensitivity
reactions (e.g. angioedema, urticaria, rash) have also been reported.
10/10/2018
(SUPPL-5)
Approved Drug Label (PDF)
 8
 Use in Specific Populations
8.1 Pregnancy
(additions
underlined)
Risk Summary
There are no adequate data on the developmental risk
associated with the use of SPINRAZA in pregnant women. 
When 
nusinersen
was administered by subcutaneous injection to mice 
throughout 
pregnancy
and lactation, developmental toxicity (long-term neurobehavioral impairment)
was observed at all doses tested 
(see
Data).
…
When nusinersen (1.4, 5.8, or 17.2 mg/kg) was
administered to pregnant female mice by subcutaneous injection every other day
throughout organogenesis and continuing once every six days throughout the
lactation period, adverse
neurobehavioral effects (alterations in locomotor activity, learning and memory
deficits) were observed when offspring were tested after weaning or as
adults. A no-effect level for
neurobehavioral impairment was not established.
8.2 Lactation
(additions underlined)
Risk Summary
There are no data on the presence of nusinersen in human
milk, the effects on the breastfed infant, or the effects of the drug on milk
production.
Nusinersen was detected in the milk of lactating mice when
administered by subcutaneous injection
. The developmental and health
benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother’s clinical
need for SPINRAZA and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant
from SPINRAZA or from the underlying maternal condition.
05/14/2018
(SUPPL-3)
Approved Drug Label (PDF)
 5
 Warnings and Precautions
5.1 Thrombocytopenia and Coagulation Abnormalities
(additions
underlined)
Coagulation
abnormalities and thrombocytopenia, including acute severe thrombocytopenia,
have been observed after administration of some antisense oligonucleotides.
In sham-controlled studies for patients with
infantile-onset and later-onset SMA, 24 of 146
(16%) SPINRAZA-treated patients with high, normal, or 
unknown 
platelet 
count
at baseline developed a platelet level below the lower limit of normal,
compared to 
10 
of 
72 (14%)
 sham- 
controlled 
patients.
In the sham-controlled study in patients with
later-onset SMA (Study 2), two SPINRAZA-treated patients developed
platelet counts less than 50,000 cells per microliter,
 with a lowest level
of 10,000 cells per microliter recorded on day 28.
Because of the risk of thrombocytopenia and coagulation abnormalities from SPINRAZA,
patients may be at increased risk of bleeding complications.
Perform a platelet count and coagulation laboratory
testing at baseline and prior to each administration of SPINRAZA and as
clinically needed.
5.2 Renal Toxicity
(additions
underlined)
Renal toxicity, including potentially fatal
glomerulonephritis, has been observed after administration of some antisense
oligonucleotides.
SPINRAZA is present in and excreted by the kidney. In 
the
sham-controlled studies for patients with infantile-onset and later-onset SMA,
71 
of 
123 (58%) of
 SPINRAZA-treated patients had elevated urine
protein, compared to 
22
 of 
65 (34%) sham- controlled 
patients. Conduct quantitative spot urine protein
testing (preferably using a first morning urine specimen) at baseline and prior
to each dose of SPINRAZA. For urinary protein concentration greater than 0.2
g/L, consider repeat testing and further evaluation.
 6
 Adverse Reactions
6.1 Clinical Trials Experience
(additions
and revisions, please refer to label)
6.2 Immunogenicity
(additions
underlined)
As with all oligonucleotides, there is
potential for immunogenicity.
 The detection of antibody
formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay.
Additionally, the observed incidence of antibody (including neutralizing
antibody) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors, including
assay methodology, sample handling, timing of sample collection, concomitant
medications, and underlying disease. For these reasons, comparison of the
incidence of antibodies to nusinersen in the studies described below with the
incidence of antibodies in other studies or to other products may be
misleading.
The immunogenic response to nusinersen was
determined in 249 patients with post-baseline plasma samples evaluated for
anti-drug antibodies (ADAs). Sixteen patients (6%) developed treatment-emergent
ADAs, of which 3 were transient,13 were considered to be persistent.
Persistent was defined as having one positive
test followed by another one more than 100 days after the first positive test.
In addition, “persistent” is also defined as having one or more positive
samples and no sample more than 100 days after the first positive sample.
Transient was defined as having one or more positive results and not confirmed
to be persistent. There are insufficient
data to evaluate an effect of ADAs on clinical response, adverse events, or the
pharmacokinetic profile of nusinersen.
05/14/2018
(SUPPL-4)
Approved Drug Label (PDF)
 6
 Adverse Reactions
6.3 Postmarketing Experience
(
additions underlined)
The
following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of SPINRAZA.
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain
size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or
establish a causal relationship to drug exposure.
Serious infections (including
meningitis) 
and hydrocephalus
 have occurred in patients treated with
SPINRAZA via lumbar puncture.
11/21/2017
(SUPPL-2)
Approved Drug Label (PDF)
 6
 Adverse Reactions
6.3 Postmarketing Experience
(Newly added subsection)
The following adverse reactions have
been identified during post-approval use of SPINRAZA. Because these reactions
are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always
possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal
relationship to drug exposure.
Serious infections, including
meningitis, have occurred as complications of lumbar puncture in patients
treated with SPINRAZA.
