
===== PAGE 1 =====
 
 
 
 
Direct Healthcare Professional Communication 
 
31st July 2018 
Spinraza▼ (nusinersen): reports of communicating 
hydrocephalus not related to meningitis or bleeding  
Dear Healthcare Professional, 
Biogen, in agreement with the European Medicines Agency and the Medicines and Healthcare 
products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), would like to inform you of the following: 
 
Summary 
 
Communicating hydrocephalus not related to meningitis or 
bleeding has been reported in patients, including children, treated 
with Spinraza. Some of them were managed with implantation of a 
ventriculo-peritoneal shunt (VPS).  
 
Patients and caregivers should be informed about the signs and 
symptoms of hydrocephalus before Spinraza is started and should 
be instructed to seek medical attention in case of: persistent 
vomiting or headache, unexplained decrease in consciousness, and 
in children increase in head circumference. 
 
Patients with signs and symptoms suggestive of hydrocephalus 
should be further investigated by a physician with expertise in its 
management. 
 
In patients with decreased consciousness, increased CSF pressure 
and infection should be ruled out. 
 
There is limited information on the continued effectiveness of 
Spinraza when a VPS is implanted. Physicians should closely 
monitor and assess patients who continue to receive Spinraza 
following placement of a VPS.  
 
Patients and caregivers should be informed that the risks and 
benefits of Spinraza in patients with a VPS are not known. 
 
Background on the safety concern   
 
Spinraza is a medicine indicated for the treatment of 5q spinal muscular atrophy (SMA). Following 
an initial regimen of four loading doses over a course of 63 days, it is administered every 4 months. 
Spinraza is administered intrathecally by lumbar puncture. 
 
Communicating hydrocephalus, not related to meningitis or bleeding, has been reported in 
patients, including children, with SMA treated with Spinraza.  
 
Given the potential consequences of untreated hydrocephalus, Biogen is alerting physicians involved 
in the care of SMA patients (such as neurologists and neuro-paediatricians) to the potential risk for 
communicating hydrocephalus associated with Spinraza treatment. Physicians are advised to discuss 

===== PAGE 2 =====
 
 
 
 
this potential risk with patients and caregivers and advise them to be vigilant about signs and 
symptoms of hydrocephalus.   
 
An evaluation for hydrocephalus should be considered in patients with signs or symptoms of 
hydrocephalus, including persistent vomiting or headache, unexplained decrease in consciousness, 
and, in children, an increase in head circumference.  Physicians should closely follow any patient 
that presents with concerning signs or symptoms. Patients diagnosed with hydrocephalus should be 
promptly referred to a physician with expertise in its management.  
 
In patients with SMA, management of hydrocephalus has included placement of a ventriculo-
peritoneal shunt (VPS). At least two of the children who developed communicating hydrocephalus 
whilst being treated with Spinraza were managed with implantation of a VPS. There is limited 
information on the continued effectiveness of Spinraza when a VPS is implanted.  
 
Physicians are advised to closely monitor and assess patients who continue to receive Spinraza 
following placement of a VPS. Patients/their caregivers should be informed that the risks and benefits 
of Spinraza in patients with a VPS are not known.  
 
Short descriptions of five cases reported up to 6 July 2018: 
 
A 4-month-old female with Type I SMA who had received three doses of Spinraza presented with 
enlarging head size and lethargy, and was diagnosed with communicating hydrocephalus. Results 
from a CSF sample showed no evidence of an infection. The patient underwent placement of a VPS. 
The patient continues to receive Spinraza therapy. 
 
A 6-month-old male with Type I SMA who had received four doses of Spinraza exhibited signs of 
increased intracranial pressure with nystagmus and tense fontanelle. Communicating hydrocephalus 
with markedly enlarged inner CSF spaces was shown. Spinal magnetic resonance imaging did not 
show evidence of space occupying lesions or bleeding. A VPS was placed. The patient continues to 
receive Spinraza therapy. 
 
A 3-year-old male with Type I SMA had received two doses of Spinraza when brain MRI revealed 
communicating hydrocephalus. There was no treatment administered for the hydrocephalus, but the 
patient is being followed by a neurosurgery clinic. Treatment with Spinraza was discontinued. 
 
A 5-month-old male with Type I SMA who received four doses of Spinraza presented with 
macrocephaly and was diagnosed with communicating hydrocephalus. Results of a CSF sample 
showed no evidence of infection. As treatment, the patient has an external ventricular drain (EVD) 
and is awaiting VPS. The patient is planned for continued Spinraza therapy.  
 
An adult female patient with SMA who had received Spinraza was diagnosed with communicating 
hydrocephalus. The patient was reported to also have scoliosis. 
 
The Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and Package Leaflet of Spinraza will be updated to 
reflect this new warning and precaution. 
 
 

===== PAGE 3 =====
 
 
 
 
Call for reporting 
Please continue to report suspected adverse drug reactions (ADRs) to the MHRA through the Yellow 
Card Scheme. Please report: 
 
all suspected ADRs that are serious or result in harm. Serious reactions are those that are fatal, 
life-threatening, disabling or incapacitating, those that cause a congenital abnormality or result 
in hospitalisation, and those that are considered medically significant for any other reason 
 
all suspected ADRs associated with new drugs and vaccines identified by the black triangle▼ 
It is easiest and quickest to report ADRs online via the Yellow Cards website - 
https://yellowcard.mhra.gov.uk/ or via the Yellow Card app available from the Apple App Store or 
Google Play Store. Alternatively, prepaid Yellow Cards for reporting are available: 
 
by writing to FREEPOST YELLOW CARD (no other address details necessary) 
 
by emailing yellowcard@mhra.gov.uk 
 
at the back of the British National Formulary (BNF) 
 
by telephoning the Commission on Human Medicines (CHM) free phone line: 
0800-731-6789 or  
 
by downloading and printing a form from the yellow card website (see link above) 
When reporting please provide as much information as possible, including information about medical 
history, any concomitant medication, onset, treatment dates, and product brand name. 
Company contact point 
Further information can be requested from Biogen by telephone (0800 008 7401), fax [+44 (0) 1628 
501 010] or email (MedInfoUKI@biogen.com). 
Annexes 
Contact point details for further information are given in the product information of the medicinal 
product (SmPC and PIL) at http://www.medicines.org.uk/emc. 
 
Yours faithfully 
 
 
Dr Simon Beck 
Medical Director, UK and Ireland 
 
 
 
SPZ-GBR-0020; Date of preparation July 2018 
