1. Blood. 1998 Sep 1;92(5):1617-25.

Phosphorothioate oligonucleotides inhibit the intrinsic tenase complex.

Sheehan JP(1), Lan HC.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, Department of 
Medicine/Hematology, San Antonio, TX, USA. sheehan@uthscsa.edu

Systemic administration of ISIS 2302, a 20-mer antisense phosphorothioate 
oligonucleotide targeting human intercellular adhesion molecule-1 mRNA, causes 
prolongation of plasma clotting times in both monkey and human studies. The 
anticoagulant effects of ISIS 2302 were investigated with both in vitro 
coagulation assays in human plasma and purified enzyme systems. At high 
oligonucleotide plasma concentrations (>100 microgram/mL), prolongation of the 
prothrombin and thrombin times was observed. In a thrombin time assay using 
purified components, high concentrations of ISIS 2302 inhibited thrombin 
clotting activity both by stimulating inhibition by heparin cofactor II and 
directly competing with fibrinogen for binding to anion binding exosite I. In 
contrast, low concentrations of ISIS 2302 (<100 microgram/mL) showed a 
selective, linear prolongation of the activated partial thromboplastin time 
(PTT). The rate limiting effect of 50 microgram/mL ISIS 2302, which prolonged 
the PTT to 1.5 times control, was identified by sequential modification of the 
clotting assay. Delaying addition of oligonucleotide until after contact 
activation failed to correct prolongation of the PTT. The calcium-dependent 
steps of the intrinsic pathway were individually assessed by adding sufficient 
activated coagulation factor to correct the PTT in plasma deficient in that 
specific factor. Addition of factor XIa, IXa, VIIIa, or Va failed to correct the 
PTT in the presence of ISIS 2302. In contrast, 0.2 nmol/L factor Xa corrected 
prolongation of the PTT in factor X-deficient plasma with or without 
oligonucleotide present. ISIS 2302 (50 microgram/mL) did not prolong a modified 
Russel viper venom time, suggesting no significant inhibition of prothrombinase. 
Thus, 50 microgram/mL ISIS 2302 prolonged the PTT by selectively inhibiting 
intrinsic tenase activity. ISIS 2302 showed partial inhibition of intrinsic 
tenase activity (to approximately 35% of control) at clinically relevant 
oligonucleotide concentrations in a chromogenic assay. This activity was 
oligonucleotide sequence-independent but required the phosphorothioate backbone, 
suggesting that inhibition of intrinsic tenase is a general property of this 
class of oligonucleotides. These results are relevant to both the therapeutic 
use of phosphorothioate oligonucleotides and the potential design of inhibitors 
of the intrinsic tenase complex, a novel target for anticoagulation.

Copyright 1998 by The American Society of Hematology.

PMID: 9716589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]