1. Antisense Nucleic Acid Drug Dev. 1997 Oct;7(5):503-10. doi: 
10.1089/oli.1.1997.7.503.

Inhibition of coagulation by a phosphorothioate oligonucleotide.

Henry SP(1), Novotny W, Leeds J, Auletta C, Kornbrust DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Toxicology, Isis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Carlsbad, CA 92008, 
USA.

In the development of antisense therapeutics, there have been a number of 
hybridization-independent effects characterized for phosphorothioate 
oligodeoxynucleotides. One such effect is the transient prolongation of clotting 
times following intravenous infusion of high doses. In this study, inhibition of 
clotting times was characterized by determining the time course of both APTT and 
plasma oligonucleotide following intravenous infusion of ISIS 2302 in cynomolgus 
monkeys. Prolongation of APTT was also achieved by addition of ISIS 2302 to 
citrated blood from untreated monkeys, allowing the investigation of the 
mechanism of inhibition in vitro. Results from this study clearly indicate that 
the intrinsic pathway (APTT) was more sensitive to inhibition than the extrinsic 
pathway (PT). The prolongation of APTT was also shown to be transient and 
closely correlated with plasma oligonucleotide concentrations. The extent of 
APTT prolongation can be controlled by minimizing peak plasma oligonucleotide 
concentrations through lowering the dose or prolonging infusion duration. Direct 
addition of ISIS 2302 to blood produced quantitatively similar inhibition of 
clotting times. This effect was similar for a number of different 
phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotides, but oligonucleotides containing 
phosphodiester linkages and 2'-propoxy linkages were much less inhibitory. 
Additional in vitro studies indicated that the mechanism of inhibition was 
independent of that of heparin and possibly involved selective inhibition of the 
intrinsic pathway as well as the common clotting pathway. Investigation of 
selective clotting factors indicated that there was no direct inhibition of the 
enzymatic activity of factor Xa, XIa, or thrombin using chromogenic substrates. 
However, ISIS 2302 did produce a concentration-dependent increase in clotting 
time when fibrinogen was used as the substrate for thrombin.

DOI: 10.1089/oli.1.1997.7.503
PMID: 9361909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]