 

 
 
 
 
 Modulation of factor 7 expression - Isis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Login
 
 Sign up

 
 Search
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Expert Search 

 
 Quick Search 

 
 
 
 
 US Patents/Apps

 
 
 Other

 SEARCH 

 
 
 TOOLS & RESOURCES

 
 
 Title:

 
 
 Modulation of factor 7 expression 

 
 
 
 United States Patent 9029337 

 
 
 Abstract:

 
 Disclosed herein are antisense compounds and methods for decreasing Factor 7 and treating or preventing thromboembolic complications, hyperproliferative disorders, or inflammatory conditions in an individual in need thereof. Examples of disease conditions that can be ameliorated with the administration of antisense compounds targeted to Factor 7 include thrombosis, embolism, and thromboembolism, such as, deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, myocardial infarction, stroke, cancer, rheumatoid arthritis, and fibrosis.

 
 
 Application Number:

 
 12/741959 

 
 
 Publication Date:

 
 05/12/2015 

 
 
 Filing Date:

 
 11/05/2008 

 
 
 Export Citation:

 
 Click for automatic bibliography
 generation 

 
 
 Assignee:

 
 Isis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 

 
 
 Primary Class:

 
 514/44A 

 
 International Classes:

 
 C12N15/113 

 
 
 Field of Search:

 
 514/44A 

 
 
 View Patent Images:

 
 Download PDF 9029337   

 
 
 US Patent References:

 
 
 
 7871985 Compositions and methods for inhibiting expression of factor VII gene 2011-01-18 de Fougerolles et al. 514/44R 
 20100331392 ANTIDOTES TO ANTISENSE COMPOUNDS 2010-12-30 Monia et al. 514/44A 
 20070031844 Functional and hyperfunctional siRNA 2007-02-08 Khvorova et al. 
 20060252039 Novel allelic variants in the factor vii gene 2006-11-09 Fontcuberta et al. 435/6 
 20060058266 Chemically modified oligonucleotides 2006-03-16 Manoharan et al. 514/81 
 20060003322 Bioinformatically detectable group of novel regulatory genes and uses thereof 2006-01-05 Bentwich 435/6 
 20050208588 Supports for oligomer synthesis 2005-09-22 Ravikumar et al. 435/7.1 
 20030228597 Identification of genetic targets for modulation by oligonucleotides and generation of oligonucleotides for gene modulation 2003-12-11 Cowsert et al. 
 6582908 Oligonucleotides 2003-06-24 Fodor et al. 
 20010053519 Oligonucleotides 2001-12-20 Fodor et al. 
 5801154 Antisense oligonucleotide modulation of multidrug resistance-associated protein 1998-09-01 Baracchini et al. 

 
 
 
 Foreign References:

 
 
 
 WO2000040595A1 2000-07-13 ANTISENSE MODULATION OF NOVEL ANTI-APOPTOTIC BCL-2-RELATED PROTEINS 
 WO2001030395A1 2001-05-03 ANTISENSE MODULATION OF TUMOR NECROSIS FACTOR ALPHA CONVERTING ENZYME (TACE) EXPRESSION 
 WO2004016754A2 2004-02-26 ANTISENSE MODULATION OF Nav1.3 EXPRESSION 
 WO2005042552A2 2005-05-12 MODULATION OF SGLT2 EXPRESSION 
 WO2010055041A1 2010-05-20 COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR INHIBITING EXPRESSION OF FACTOR VII GENES 

 
 
 Other References:

 
 Applicant's arguments filed on Feb. 17, 2011, pp. 1-15, U.S. Appl. No. 12/488,394. 

 Mouritzen et al. Nature Methods 2:313-17, 2005. 

 Hagen et al., “Characterization of a cDNA coding for human factor VII” PNAS (1986) 83(8):2412-2416. 

 O'Hara et al., “Nucleotide sequence of the gene coding for human factor VII, a vitamin K-dependent protein participating in blood coagulation” PNAS (1987) 84(15):5158-5162. 

 Crosby et al., “Antisense Oligonucleotide Mediated Depiction of Factor VII Provides Protection from Ferric Chlroide Induced Thrombosis without Increased Bleeding Risk in Mice” Blood (2008) 112(11):1058. 

 Crosby et al., “FXII Antisense Oligonucleotide Mediated Depletion Results in Effective Anticoagulation without Bleeding Risk” Blood (2010) 116(21):497. 

 Savi et al., “Effect of Aspirin and Clopidogrel on Platelet-Dependent Tissue Factor Expression in Endothelial Cells” Thrombosis Research (1994) 73(2):117-124. 

 European Search Report for application EP 10800570 dated May 31, 2013. 

 Becker et al., “Nucleic Acid Aptamers in Therapeutic Anticoagulation Technology, Development and Clinical Application” Thrombosis and Haemostasis (2005) 93(6):1014-1020. 

 Branch et al., “A good antisense molecule is hard to find,” TIBS (1998) 23:45-50. 

 Crooke et al., “Basic Principles of Antisense Therapeutics” Antisense Research and Application (1998) Chapter 1:1-50. 

 New England Biolabs 1998/99 Catalog (cover page and pp. 121 and 284). 

 Reynolds et al., “Rational siRNA design for RNA interference” Nature Biotechnology (2004) 22(3):326-330. 

 Sanghvi et al., “Heterocyclic Base Modifications in Nucleic Acids and Their Applications in Antisense Oligonucleotides” Antisense Research and Applications (1993) pp. 273-288. 

 Shirk et al., “Inhibitors of Factor VIIa/tissue factor” Arteriosclerosis, Thrombosis, and Vascular Biology (2007) 27(9):1895-1900. 

 International Search Report for application No. PCT/US2008/082526 dated Jun. 4, 2009. 

 Ollivier et al., “Tissue Factor-Dependent Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Production by Human Fibroblasts in Response to Activated Factor VII” Blood (1998) 91(8):2698-2703. 

 International Search Report for application No. PCT/US2010/042187 dated Dec. 22, 2010. 

 
 
 Attorney, Agent or Firm:

 
 Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 

 
 
 Parent Case Data:

 
 RELATED APPLICATIONS
 This application is a 35 U.S.C. §371 national phase application of international application serial no. PCT/US2008/082526, filed on Nov. 5, 2008, which is a non-provisional of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 60/986,928, filed on Nov. 9, 2007, the disclosure of each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

 
 
 Claims:

 
 The invention claimed is: 
 1. A compound comprising a single-stranded modified antisense oligonucleotide consisting of 12 to 30 linked nucleosides targeted to a human Factor 7 nucleic acid, wherein the oligonucleotide has a sequence that is least 90% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 1 as measured over the entirety of said oligonucleotide, and wherein the oligonucleotide comprises:
 a gap segment consisting of linked deoxynucleosides; 
 a 5′ wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; 
 a 3′ wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; 
 wherein the gap segment is positioned immediately adjacent to and between the 5′ wing segment and the 3′ wing segment and wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a modified sugar. 
 
 2. The compound of claim 1, wherein the oligonucleotide comprises:
 a gap segment consisting of ten linked deoxynucleosides; 
 a 5′ wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; 
 a 3′ wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; 
 wherein the gap segment is positioned immediately adjacent to and between the 5′ wing segment and the 3′ wing segment, wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a 2′-O-methoxyethyl sugar, wherein each cytosine in said oligonucleotide is a 5-methylcytosine, and wherein each internucleoside linkage of said oligonucleotide is a phosphorothioate linkage. 
 
 3. The compound of claim 2, wherein the oligonucleotide consists of 20 linked nucleosides. 
 4. A composition comprising the compound of claim 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 
 5. The compound of claim 1, wherein the oligonucleotide has a sequence that is 100% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 1 as measured over the entirety of said oligonucleotide. 
 6. The compound of claim 1, wherein the oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 
 7. The compound of claim 6, wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 
 8. The compound of claim 1, wherein the modified sugar is a 2′-O-methoxyethyl sugar or a bicyclic sugar. 
 9. The compound of claim 1, wherein the oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 
 10. The compound of claim 9, wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 
 11. A composition comprising a compound comprising a single-stranded modified antisense oligonucleotide consisting of 12 to 30 linked nucleosides targeted to a human Factor 7 nucleic acid, wherein the oligonucleotide has a sequence that is least 90% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 1 as measured over the entirety of said oligonucleotide, wherein the oligonucleotide comprises at least one modification selected from the group consisting of a modified internucleoside linkage, a modified sugar, and a modified nucleobase, a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent and a therapeutic agent selected from the group consisting of aspirin, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, heparin, lepirudin, ticlopidine, warfarin, apixaban, rivaroxaban, and lovenox. 
 12. A method comprising identifying an animal having a disease or condition associated with Factor 7 and administering to the animal a therapeutically effective amount of the compound comprising a single-stranded modified antisense oligonucleotide consisting of 12 to 30 linked nucleosides targeted to a human Factor 7 nucleic acid, wherein the oligonucleotide has a sequence that is least 90% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 1 as measured over the entirety of said oligonucleotide, wherein the oligonucleotide comprises at least one modification selected from the group consisting of a modified internucleoside linkage, a modified sugar, and a modified nucleobase such that expression of Factor 7 is inhibited. 
 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the disease or condition is selected from the group consisting of a thromboembolic complication, a hyperproliferative disorder, and an inflammatory condition. 
 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the thromboembolic complication is thrombosis, embolism, thromboembolism, deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, myocardial infarction, or stroke. 
 15. The method of claim 12, wherein the animal is a human. 
 16. The method of claim 12, comprising co-administering the compound and a therapeutic agent selected from the group consisting of aspirin, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, heparin, lepirudin, ticlopidine, warfarin, apixaban, rivaroxaban, and lovenox. 
 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the compound and the therapeutic agent are administered concomitantly. 
 18. The method of claim 12, wherein the oligonucleotide has a sequence that is 100% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 1 as measured over the entirety of said oligonucleotide. 
 19. The method of claim 12, wherein the oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 
 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 
 21. The method of claim 12, wherein the oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified sugar. 
 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the modified sugar is a 2′-O-methoxyethyl sugar or a bicyclic sugar. 
 23. The method of claim 12, wherein the oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 
 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 
 25. The method of claim 12, wherein the oligonucleotide comprises:
 a gap segment consisting of linked deoxynucleosides; 
 a 5′ wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; 
 a 3′ wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; 
 wherein the gap segment is positioned immediately adjacent to and between the 5′ wing segment and the 3′ wing segment and wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a modified sugar. 
 
 26. The method of claim 12, wherein the oligonucleotide comprises:
 a gap segment consisting of ten linked deoxynucleosides; 
 a 5′ wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; 
 a 3′ wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; 
 wherein the gap segment is positioned immediately adjacent to and between the 5′ wing segment and the 3′ wing segment, wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a 2′-O-methoxyethyl sugar, wherein each cytosine in said oligonucleotide is a 5-methylcytosine, and wherein each internucleoside linkage of said oligonucleotide is a phosphorothioate linkage. 
 
 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the oligonucleotide consists of 20 linked nucleosides. 

 
 
 Description:

 
 RELATED APPLICATIONS

 This application is a 35 U.S.C. §371 national phase application of international application serial no. PCT/US2008/082526, filed on Nov. 5, 2008, which is a non-provisional of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 60/986,928, filed on Nov. 9, 2007, the disclosure of each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

 SEQUENCE LISTING

 The present application is being filed along with a Sequence Listing in electronic format. The Sequence Listing is provided as a file entitled BIOL0099WOSEQ.txt created Nov. 5, 2008, which is 180 Kb in size. The information in the electronic format of the sequence listing is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

 FIELD OF THE INVENTION

 Embodiments of the present invention provide methods, compounds, and compositions for reducing expression of Factor 7 mRNA and protein in an animal. Such methods, compounds, and compositions are useful to treat, prevent, or ameliorate thromboembolic complications, hyperproliferative disorders, and inflammatory conditions.

 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION

 The circulatory system requires mechanisms that prevent blood loss, as well as those that counteract inappropriate intravascular obstructions. Generally, coagulation comprises a cascade of reactions culminating in the conversion of soluble fibrinogen to an insoluble fibrin gel. The steps of the cascade involve the conversion of an inactive zymogen to an activated enzyme. The active enzyme then catalyzes the next step in the cascade.

 Coagulation Cascade

 The coagulation cascade may be initiated through two branches, the tissue factor pathway (also “extrinsic pathway”), which is the primary pathway, and the contact activation pathway (also “intrinsic pathway”).

 The tissue factor pathway is initiated by the cell surface receptor tissue factor (TF, also referred to as factor III), which is expressed constitutively by extravascular cells (pericytes, cardiomyocytes, smooth muscle cells, and keratinocytes) and expressed by vascular monocytes and endothelial cells upon induction by inflammatory cytokines or endotoxin. (Drake et al., Am J Pathol 1989, 134:1087-1097). TF is the high affinity cellular receptor for coagulation factor VIIa, a serine protease. In the absence of TF, VIIa has very low catalytic activity, and binding to TF is necessary to render VIIa functional through an allosteric mechanism. (Drake et al., Am J Pathol 1989, 134:1087-1097). The TF-VIIa complex activates factor X to Xa. Xa in turn associates with its co-factor factor Va into a prothrombinase complex which in turn activates prothrombin, (also known as factor II or factor 2) to thrombin (also known as factor IIa, or factor 2a). Thrombin activates platelets, converts fibrinogen to fibrin and promotes fibrin cross-linking by activating factor XIII, thus forming a stable plug at sites where TF is exposed on extravascular cells. In addition, thrombin reinforces the coagulation cascade response by activating factors V and VIII.

 The contact activation pathway is triggered by activation of factor XII to XIIa. Factor XIIa converts XI to XIa, and XIa converts IX to IXa. IXa associates with its cofactor VIIIa to convert X to Xa. The two pathways converge at this point as factor Xa associates factor Va to activate prothrombin (factor II) to thrombin (factor IIa).

 Inhibition of Coagulation

 At least three mechanisms keep the coagulation cascade in check, namely the action of activated protein C, antithrombin, and tissue factor pathway inhibitor. Activated protein C is a serine protease that degrades cofactors Va and VIIIa. Protein C is activated by thrombin with thrombomodulin, and requires coenzyme Protein S to function. Antithrombin is a serine protease inhibitor (serpin) that inhibits serine proteases: thrombin, Xa, XIIa, XIa and IXa. Tissue factor pathway inhibitor inhibits the action of Xa and the TF-VIIa complex. (Schwartz A L et al., Trends Cardiovasc Med. 1997; 7:234-239.)

 Disease

 Thrombosis is the pathological development of blood clots, and an embolism occurs when a blood clot migrates to another part of the body and interferes with organ function. Thromboembolism may cause conditions such as deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, myocardial infarction, and stroke. Significantly, thromboembolism is a major cause of morbidity affecting over 2 million Americans every year. (Adcock et al. American Journal of Clinical Pathology. 1997; 108:434-49). While most cases of thrombosis are due to acquired extrinsic problems, for example, surgery, cancer, immobility, some cases are due to a genetic predisposition, for example, antiphospholipid syndrome and the autosomal dominant condition, Factor V Leiden. (Bertina R M et al. Nature 1994; 369:64-67.)

 Treatment

 The most commonly used anticoagulants, warfarin, heparin, and low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) all possess significant drawbacks.

 Warfarin is typically used to treat patients suffering from atrial fibrillation. The drug interacts with vitamin K—dependent coagulation factors which include factors II, VII, IX and X. Anticoagulant proteins C and S are also inhibited by warfarin. Drug therapy using warfarin is further complicated by the fact that warfarin interacts with other medications, including drugs used to treat atrial fibrillation, such as amiodarone. Because therapy with warfarin is difficult to predict, patients must be carefully monitored in order to detect any signs of anomalous bleeding.

 Heparin functions by activating antithrombin which inhibits both thrombin and factor X. (Bjork I, Lindahl U. Mol Cell Biochem. 1982 48: 161-182.) Treatment with heparin may cause an immunological reaction that makes platelets aggregate within blood vessels that can lead to thrombosis. This side effect is known as heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) and requires patient monitoring. Prolonged treatment with heparin may also lead to osteoporosis. LMWH can also inhibit Factor 2, but to a lesser degree than unfractioned heparin (UFH). LMWH has been implicated in the development of HIT.

 Thus, current anticoagulant agents lack predictability and specificity and, therefore, require careful patient monitoring to prevent adverse side effects, such as bleeding complications. There are currently no anticoagulants which target only the intrinsic or extrinsic pathway.

 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION

 Provided herein are antisense compounds, compositions, and methods for the treatment and prevention of clotting disorders.

 Antisense compounds described herein may comprise an oligonucleotide consisting of 12 to 30 nucleosides targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid. In certain embodiments, the Factor 7 nucleic acid may be any of the sequences as set forth in nucleotides 1255000 to 1273000 of GENBANK® Accession No. NT — 027140.6, GENBANK® Accession No. NM — 019616.2, and GENBANK® Accession No. DB184141.1.

 The antisense compound may be a single-stranded or double-stranded oligonucleotide. The antisense compound may be 100, 95, 90, 85, 80, 75, or 70% complementary to the Factor 7 nucleic acid.

 The antisense oligonucleotide may be modified, wherein at least one internucleoside linkage is a modified internucleoside linkage. The internucleoside linkage may be a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage.

 The antisense oligonucleotide may be modified, wherein at least one nucleoside comprises a modified sugar. The modified sugar may be a bicyclic sugar. The modified sugar may comprise a 2′-O-methoxyethyl.

 The antisense oligonucleotide may be modified, wherein at least one nucleoside comprises a modified nucleobase. The modified nucleobase may be a 5-methylcytosine.

 The antisense oligonucleotide may be a 5-10-5 MOE gapmer. The antisense oligonucleotide may consist of 20 linked nucleosides.

 Compositions described herein may comprise an oligonucleotide consisting of 12 to 30 linked nucleosides, targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid or a salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

 The composition may be a single-stranded or double-stranded oligonucleotide.

 Methods described herein may comprise administering to an animal a compound comprising an oligonucleotide consisting of 12 to 30 linked nucleosides targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid.

 Administration of the compound may slow or stop coagulation. The compound may be co-administered with any of aspirin, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, heparin, lepirudin, ticlopidine, and warfarin. Administration of the compound and a second drug may be concomitant.

 Administration of the compound and/or the second drug may be by parenteral administration. Parenteral administration may be any of subcutaneous or intravenous administration.

 In another embodiment, the methods described herein may also comprise identifying a human with a clotting disorder and administering to a human a therapeutically effective amount of a compound comprising an oligonucleotide consisting of 12 to 30 linked nucleosides targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid.

 Also described is a compound comprising an antisense oligonucleotide consisting of 12 to 30 linked nucleosides that will bind within the range of nucleobases 1147 to 1227, 9169 to 9278, 10982 to 11058, 11075 to 11117, 12084 to 12117, 12387 to 13796, 13847 to 13907, 14017 to 14051, 14093 to 14134, 14172 to 14287, 14331 to 14402, 14664 to 14746, 15098 to 15570, 15609 to 15819, 15899 to 15905, or 15957 to 15982 of SEQ ID NO: 1, encoding a Factor 7 nucleic acid.

 The antisense oligonucleotide may be 90, 95, or 100% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 1, encoding a Factor 7 nucleic acid. The antisense oligonucleotide may be fully complementary to SEQ ID NO: 1.

 The antisense oligonucleotide may hybridize exclusively within the range of nucleobases 1147 to 1227, 9169 to 9278, 10982 to 11058, 11075 to 11117, 12084 to 12117, 12387 to 13796, 13847 to 13907, 14017 to 14051, 14093 to 14134, 14172 to 14287, 14331 to 14402, 14664 to 14746, 15098 to 15570, 15609 to 15819, 15899 to 15905, or 15957 to 15982 of SEQ ID NO: 1, encoding a Factor 7 nucleic acid.

 Also described is a compound comprising an antisense oligonucleotide consisting of 12 to 30 linked nucleosides that will bind within the range of nucleobases 102 to 131 or 652 to 682 of SEQ ID NO: 2, encoding a Factor 7 nucleic acid.

 The antisense oligonucleotide may be 90, 95, or 100% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 2, encoding a Factor 7 nucleic acid. The antisense oligonucleotide may be fully complementary to SEQ ID NO: 2.

 The compound may hybridize exclusively within the range of nucleobases 102 to 131 or 652 to 682 of SEQ ID NO: 2, encoding a Factor 7 nucleic acid.

 Embodiments of the present invention provide, a compound comprising a modified oligonucleotide consisting of 12 to 30 linked nucleosides comprising a nucleobase sequence comprising at least 12 contiguous nucleobases of a nucleobase sequence of SEQ ID NOs: 4 to 159 and 168 to 611.

 In certain embodiments, the nucleobase sequence is SEQ ID NO: 53.

 In certain embodiments, the nucleobase sequence of the modified oligonucleotide is at least 80% complementary to the nucleobase sequence of any of SEQ ID NO: 1, SEQ ID NO: 2, SEQ ID NO: 3, and SEQ ID NO: 167.

 In certain embodiments, the nucleobase sequence of the modified oligonucleotide is at least 90% complementary to the nucleobase sequence of any of SEQ ID NO: 1, SEQ ID NO: 2, SEQ ID NO: 3, and SEQ ID NO: 167.

 In certain embodiments, the nucleobase sequence of the modified oligonucleotide is 100% complementary to the nucleobase sequence of any of SEQ ID NO: 1, SEQ ID NO: 2, SEQ ID NO: 3, and SEQ ID NO: 167.

 In certain embodiments, the modified oligonucleotide comprises:
 
 (i) a gap segment consisting of linked deoxynucleosides;

 (ii) a 5′ wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides;

 (iii) a 3′ wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned immediately adjacent to and between the 5′ wing segment and the 3′ wing segment and wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a modified sugar.

 In certain embodiments, the modified oligonucleotide comprises:
 
 (i) a gap segment consisting of ten linked deoxynucleosides;

 (ii) a 5′ wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides;

 (iii) a 3′ wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned immediately adjacent and between the 5′ wing segment and the 3′ wing segment, wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a 2′-O-methoxyethyl sugar; and wherein each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage.

 In certain embodiments, the modified oligonucleotide comprises:
 
 (i) a gap segment consisting of fourteen linked deoxynucleosides;

 (ii) a 5′ wing segment consisting of three linked nucleosides;

 (iii) a 3′ wing segment consisting of three linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned immediately adjacent and between the 5′ wing segment and the 3′ wing segment, wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a 2′-O-methoxyethyl sugar; and wherein each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage.

 In certain embodiments, the modified oligonucleotide comprises:
 
 (i) a gap segment consisting of thirteen linked deoxynucleosides;

 (ii) a 5′ wing segment consisting of two linked nucleosides;

 (iii) a 3′ wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5′ wing segment and the 3′ wing segment, wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a 2′-O-methoxyethyl sugar; and wherein each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage.

 In certain embodiments, the modified oligonucleotide comprises:
 
 (i) a gap segment consisting of twelve linked deoxynucleosides;

 (ii) a 5′ wing segment consisting of two linked nucleosides;

 (iii) a 3′ wing segment consisting of two linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5′ wing segment and the 3′ wing segment, wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a 2′-O-methoxyethyl sugar; and wherein each internueleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage.

 Embodiments of the present invention provide a composition comprising a modified oligonucleotide consisting of 12 to 30 linked nucleosides comprising a nucleobase sequence comprising at least 12 contiguous nucleobases of a nucleobase sequence of any of SEQ ID NOs: 4 to 159 and 168 to 611 or a salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

 In certain embodiments, the nucleobase sequence is SEQ ID NO: 53.

 Embodiments of the present invention provide a method comprising administering to an animal a modified oligonucleotide consisting of 12 to 30 linked nucleosides comprising a nucleobase sequence comprising at least 12 contiguous nucleobases of a nucleobase sequence of any of SEQ ID NOs: 4 to 159 and 168 to 611.

 In certain embodiments, the nucleobase sequence is SEQ ID NO: 53.

 In certain embodiments, the animal is a human.

 In certain embodiments, the administering prevents deep vein thrombosis.

 In certain embodiments, the administering prevents pulmonary embolism.

 In certain embodiments, the administering treats a hyperproliferative disorder.

 In certain embodiments, the administering treats an inflammatory condition.

 Embodiments of the present invention provide a method comprising identifying an animal at risk for having thromboembolic complications and administering to the at risk animal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound comprising a modified oligonucleotide consisting of 12 to 30 linked nucleosides, wherein the modified oligonucleotide is complementary to a Factor 7 nucleic acid.

 In certain embodiments, the thromboembolic complication is deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, or a combination thereof.

 Embodiments of the present invention provide a compound comprising a modified oligonucleotide consisting of 12 to 30 linked nucleosides and having a nucleobase sequence, wherein the nucleobase sequence comprises an at least 12 consecutive nucleobase portion complementary to a equal number of nucleobases of nucleotides 15128 to 15223 of SEQ ID NO: 1, wherein the modified oligonucleotide is at least 80% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 1.

 In certain embodiments, the modified oligonucleotide has a nucleobase sequence of SEQ ID NO: 53.

 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION

 It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention, as claimed. Herein, the use of the singular includes the plural unless specifically stated otherwise. As used herein, the use of “or” means “and/or”, unless stated otherwise. Furthermore, the use of the term “including” as well as other forms, such as “includes” and “included”, is not limiting. Also, terms such as “element” or “component” encompass both elements and components comprising one unit and elements and components that comprise more than one subunit, unless specifically stated otherwise.

 The section headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not to be construed as limiting the subject matter described. All documents, or portions of documents, cited in this application, including, but not limited to, patents, patent applications, articles, books, and treatises, are hereby expressly incorporated by reference for the portions of the document discussed herein, as well as in their entirety.

 Definitions

 Unless specific definitions are provided, the nomenclature utilized in connection with, and the procedures and techniques of, analytical chemistry, synthetic organic chemistry, and medicinal and pharmaceutical chemistry described herein are those well known and commonly used in the art. Standard techniques may be used for chemical synthesis, and chemical analysis. Where permitted, all patents, applications, published applications and other publications, GENBANK Accession Numbers and associated sequence information obtainable through databases such as National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) and other data referred to throughout in the disclosure herein are incorporated by reference for the portions of the document discussed herein, as well as in their entirety.

 Unless otherwise indicated, the following terms have the following meanings:

 “2′-O-methoxyethyl” (also 2′-MOE and 2′-O(CH 2 ) 2 —OCH 3 ) refers to an O-methoxy-ethyl modification of the 2′ position of a furanosyl ring. A 2′-O-methoxyethyl modified sugar is a modified sugar.

 “2′-O-methoxyethyl nucleotide” means a nucleotide comprising a 2′-O-methoxyethyl modified sugar moiety.

 “5-methylcytosine” means a cytosine modified with a methyl group attached to the 5′ position. A 5-methylcytosine is a modified nucleobase.

 “Active antisense compounds” means antisense compounds that reduce target nucleic acid levels or protein levels.

 “Administered concomitantly” refers to the co-administration of two agents in any manner in which the pharmacological effects of both are manifest in the patient at the same time. Concomitant administration does not require that both agents be administered in a single pharmaceutical composition, in the same dosage form, or by the same route of administration. The effects of both agents need not manifest themselves at the same time. The effects need only be overlapping for a period of time and need not be coextensive.

 “Administering” means providing a pharmaceutical agent to an individual, and includes, but is not limited to administering by a medical professional and self-administering.

 “Amelioration” refers to a lessening of at least one indicator, sign, or symptom of an associated disease, disorder, or condition. The severity of indicators may be determined by subjective or objective measures, which are known to those skilled in the art.

 “Animal” refers to a human or non-human animal, including, but not limited to, mice, rats, rabbits, dogs, cats, pigs, and non-human primates, including, but not limited to, monkeys and chimpanzees.

 “Antidote compound” refers to a compound capable decreasing the intensity or duration of any antisense activity.

 “Antidote oligonucleotide” means an antidote compound comprising an oligonucleotide that is complementary to and capable of hybridizing with an antisense compound.

 “Antidote protein” means an antidote compound comprising a peptide.

 “Antibody” refers to a molecule characterized by reacting specifically with an antigen in some way, where the antibody and the antigen are each defined in terms of the other. Antibody may refer to a complete antibody molecule or any fragment or region thereof, such as the heavy chain, the light chain, Fab region, and Fc region.

 “Antisense activity” means any detectable or measurable activity attributable to the hybridization of an antisense compound to its target nucleic acid. In certain embodiments, antisense activity is a decrease in the amount or expression of a target nucleic acid or protein encoded by such target nucleic acid.

 “Antisense compound” means an oligomeric compound that is is capable of undergoing hybridization to a target nucleic acid through hydrogen bonding.

 “Antisense inhibition” means reduction of target nucleic acid levels or target protein levels in the presence of an antisense compound complementary to a target nucleic acid compared to target nucleic acid levels or target protein levels in the absence of the antisense compound.

 “Antisense oligonucleotide” means a single-stranded oligonucleotide having a nucleobase sequence that permits hybridization to a corresponding region or segment of a target nucleic acid.

 “Bicyclic sugar” means a furosyl ring modified by the bridging of two non-geminal ring atoms. A bicyclic sugar is a modified sugar.

 “Bicyclic nucleic acid” or “BNA” or “bicyclic nucleoside” or bicyclic nucleotide” refers to a nucleoside or nucleotide wherein the furanose portion of the nucleoside or nucleotide includes a bridge connecting two carbon atoms on the furanose ring, thereby forming a bicyclic ring system. As used herein, unless otherwise indicated, the term “methyleneoxy BNA” alone refers to β-D-methyleneoxy BNA.

 “Cap structure” or “terminal cap moiety” means chemical modifications, which have been incorporated at either terminus of an antisense compound.

 “Chemically distinct region” refers to a region of an antisense compound that is in some way chemically different than another region of the same antisense compound. For example, a region having 2′-O-methoxyethyl nucleotides is chemically distinct from a region having nucleotides without 2′-O-methoxyethyl modifications.

 “Chimeric antisense compound” means an antisense compound that has at least two chemically distinct regions, each position having a plurality of subunits.

 “Co-administration” means administration of two or more pharmaceutical agents to an individual. The two or more pharmaceutical agents may be in a single pharmaceutical composition, or may be in separate pharmaceutical compositions. Each of the two or more pharmaceutical agents may be administered through the same or different routes of administration. Co-administration encompasses administration in parallel or sequentially.

 “Coagulation factor” means any of factors I, II, III, IV, V, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, XII, or XIII in the blood coagulation cascade. “Coagulation factor nucleic acid” means any nucleic acid encoding a coagulation factor. For example, in certain embodiments, a coagulation factor nucleic acid includes, without limitation, a DNA sequence encoding a coagulation factor (including genomic DNA comprising introns and exons), an RNA sequence transcribed from DNA encoding a coagulation factor, and an mRNA sequence encoding a coagulation factor. “Coagulation factor mRNA” means an mRNA encoding a coagulation factor protein.

 “Complementarity” means the capacity for pairing between nucleobases of a first nucleic acid and a second nucleic acid.

 “Contiguous nucleobases” means nucleobases immediately adjacent to each other.

 “Diluent” means an ingredient in a composition that lacks pharmacological activity, but is pharmaceutically necessary or desirable. For example, in drugs that are injected the diluent may be a liquid, e.g. saline solution.

 “Dose” means a specified quantity of a pharmaceutical agent provided in a single administration, or in a specified time period. In certain embodiments, a dose may be administered in one, two, or more boluses, tablets, or injections. For example, in certain embodiments where subcutaneous administration is desired, the desired dose requires a volume not easily accommodated by a single injection, therefore, two or more injections may be used to achieve the desired dose. In certain embodiments, the pharmaceutical agent is administered by infusion over an extended period of time or continuously. Doses may be stated as the amount of pharmaceutical agent per hour, day, week, or month.

 “Efficacy” means the ability to produce a desired effect. “Effective amount” means the amount of active pharmaceutical agent sufficient to effectuate a desired physiological outcome in an individual in need of the agent. The effective amount may vary among individuals depending on the health and physical condition of the individual to be treated, the taxonomic group of the individuals to be treated, the formulation of the composition, assessment of the individual's medical condition, and other relevant factors.

 “Factor 7 nucleic acid” or “Factor VII nucleic acid” means any nucleic acid encoding Factor 7. For example, in certain embodiments, a Factor 7 nucleic acid includes, without limitation, a DNA sequence encoding Factor 7, an RNA sequence transcribed from DNA encoding Factor 7 (including genomic DNA comprising introns and exons), and an mRNA sequence encoding Factor 7. “Factor 7 mRNA” means an mRNA encoding a Factor 7 protein.

 “Factor 7 specific inhibitor” refers to any agent capable of specifically inhibiting the expression of Factor 7 mRNA and/or Factor 7 protein at the molecular level. For example, Factor 7 specific inhibitors include nucleic acids (including antisense compounds), peptides, antibodies, small molecules, and other agents capable of inhibiting the expression of Factor 7 mRNA and/or Factor 7 protein. In certain embodiments, by specifically modulating Factor 7 mRNA expression and/or Factor 7 protein expression, Factor 7 specific inhibitors may affect other components of the coagulation cascade including downstream components. Similarly, in certain embodiments, Factor 7 specific inhibitors may affect other molecular processes in an animal.

 “Factor 7 specific inhibitor antidote” means a compound capable of decreasing the effect of a Factor 7 specific inhibitor. In certain embodiments, a Factor 7 specific inhibitor antidote is selected from a Factor 7 peptide; a Factor 7 antidote oligonucleotide; including a Factor 7 antidote compound complementary to a Factor 7 antisense compound; and any compound or protein that affects the intrinsic or extrinsic coagulation pathway.

 “Fully complementary” or “100% complementary” means each nucleobase of a first nucleic acid has a complementary nucleobase in a second nucleic acid. In certain embodiments, a first nucleic acid is an antisense compound and a target nucleic acid is a second nucleic acid. In certain such embodiments, an antisense oligonucleotide is a first nucleic acid and a target nucleic acid is a second nucleic acid.

 “Gapmer” means an antisense compound in which an internal position having a plurality of nucleotides that supports RNaseH cleavage is positioned between external regions having one or more nucleotides that are chemically distinct from the nucleosides of the internal region. A “gap segment” means the plurality of nucleotides that make up the internal region of a gapmer. A “wing segment” means the external region of a gapmer.

 “Gap-widened” means a chimeric antisense compound having a gap segment of 12 or more contiguous 2′-deoxyribonucleosides positioned between and immediately adjacent to 5′ and 3′ wing segments having from one to six nucleosides.

 “Hybridization” means the annealing of complementary nucleic acid molecules. In certain embodiments, complementary nucleic acid molecules include, but are not limited to, an antisense compound and a target nucleic acid. In certain such embodiments, complementary nucleic acid molecules include, but are not limited to, an antisense oligonucleotide and a nucleic acid target.

 “Hyperproliferative disorder” refers to disorders characterized by an abnormal or pathological proliferation of cells, for example, cancer, psoriasis, hyperplasia and the like.

 “Identifying an animal at risk for thromboembolic complications” means identifying an animal having been diagnosed with a thromboembolic complication, or identifying an animal predisposed to develop a thromboembolic complication. Individuals predisposed to develop a thromboembolic complication include those having one or more risk factors for thromboembolic complications including immobility, surgery (particularly orthopedic surgery), malignancy, pregnancy, older age, use of oral contraceptives, and inherited or acquired prothrombotic clotting disorders. Such identification may be accomplished by any method including evaluating an individual's medical history and standard clinical tests or assessments.

 “Immediately adjacent” means there are no intervening elements between the immediately adjacent elements.

 “Individual” means a human or non-human animal selected for treatment or therapy.

 “Individual in need thereof” refers to a human or non-human animal selected for treatment or therapy that is in need of such treatment or therapy.

 “Inflammatory condition” refers to a disease, disease state, syndrome, or other condition resulting in inflammation. For example, rheumatoid arthritis and liver fibrosis are inflammatory conditions. Other examples of inflammatory conditions include sepsis, myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury, adult respiratory distress syndrome, nephritis, graft rejection, inflammatory bowel disease, multiple sclerosis, arteriosclerosis, and vasculitis.

 “Internucleoside linkage” refers to the chemical bond between nucleosides.

 “Linked nucleosides” means adjacent nucleosides which are bonded together.

 “Mismatch” or “non-complementary nucleobase” means a nucleobase of a first nucleic acid that is not capable of pairing with the corresponding nucleobase of a second or target nucleic acid.

 “Modified internucleoside linkage” refers to a substitution and/or any change from a naturally occurring internucleoside bond (i.e. a phosphodiester internucleoside bond).

 “Modified nucleobase” refers to any nucleobase other than adenine, cytosine, guanine, thymidine, or uracil. An “unmodified nucleobase” means the purine bases adenine (A) and guanine (G), and the pyrimidine bases thymine (T), cytosine (C), and uracil (U).

 “Modified nucleotide” means a nucleotide having, independently, a modified sugar moiety, modified internucleoside linkage, or modified nucleobase. A “modified nucleoside” means a nucleoside having, independently, a modified sugar moiety or modified nucleobase.

 “Modified oligonucleotide” means an oligonucleotide comprising a modified internucleoside linkage, a modified sugar, and/or a modified nucleobase.

 “Modified sugar” refers to a substitution and/or any change from a natural sugar. “Modified sugar moiety” means a sugar moiety having any substitution and/or change from a natural sugar moiety.

 “Motif” means the pattern of unmodified and modified nucleosides in an antisense compound, i.e. the pattern of chemically distinct regions in an antisense compound.

 “Naturally occurring internucleoside linkage” means a 3′ to 5′ phosphodiester linkage.

 “Natural sugar moiety” means a sugar found in DNA (2′-H) or RNA (2′-OH).

 “Nucleic acid” refers to molecules composed of monomeric nucleotides. A nucleic acid includes ribonucleic acids (RNA), deoxyribonucleic acids (DNA), single-stranded nucleic acids, double-stranded nucleic acids, small interfering ribonucleic acids (siRNA), and microRNAs (miRNA).

 “Nucleobase” means a heterocyclic moiety capable of pairing with a base of another nucleic acid.

 “Nucleobase sequence” means the order of contiguous nucleobases independent of any sugar, linkage, and/or nucleobase modification.

 “Nucleoside” means a nucleobase linked to a sugar.

 “Nucleotide” means a nucleoside having a phosphate group covalently linked to the sugar portion of the nucleoside.

 “Oligomeric compound” or “oligomer” means a polymer comprising linked monomeric subunits which is capable of hybridizing to at least a region of a nucleic acid molecule.

 “Oligonucleotide” means a polymer of linked nucleosides each of which can be modified or unmodified, independent one from another.

 “Parenteral administration” means administration through injection or infusion. Parenteral administration includes, but is not limited to, subcutaneous administration, intravenous administration, intramuscular administration, intraarterial administration, intraperitoneal administration, or intracranial administration, e.g. intrathecal or intracerebroventricular administration. “Subcutaneous administration” means administration just below the skin. “Intravenous administration” means administration into the veins.

 “Peptide” means a molecule formed by linking at least two amino acids by amide bonds. Peptide refers to polypeptides and proteins.

 “Pharmaceutical agent” means a substance provides a therapeutic benefit when administered to an individual. For example, in certain embodiments, an antisense oligonucleotide targeted to Factor 7 is a pharmaceutical agent. “Active pharmaceutical agent” means the substance or substances in a pharmaceutical composition that provides a desired effect.

 “Pharmaceutical composition” means a mixture of substances suitable for administering to an individual. For example, a pharmaceutical composition may comprise one or more antisense oligonucleotides and a sterile aqueous solution.

 “Pharmaceutically acceptable salts” means physiologically and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of antisense compounds, i.e., salts that retain the desired biological activity of the parent oligonucleotide and do not impart undesired toxicological effects thereto.

 “Phosphorothioate linkage” means a linkage between nucleosides where the phosphodiester bond is modified by replacing one of the non-bridging oxygen atoms with a sulfur atom. A phosphorothioate linkage is a modified internucleoside linkage.

 “Portion” means a defined number of contiguous (i.e. linked) nucleobases of a nucleic acid. In certain embodiments, a portion is a defined number of contiguous nucleobases of a target nucleic acid. In certain embodiments, a portion is a defined number of contiguous nucleobases of an antisense compound.

 “Prevent” refers to delaying or forestalling the onset or development of a disease, disorder, or condition for a period of time from minutes to indefinitely. “Prevent” also means reducing risk of developing a disease, disorder, or condition.

 “Prodrug” means a therapeutic agent that is prepared in an inactive form that is converted to an active form (i.e., drug) within the body or cells thereof by the action of endogenous enzymes or other chemicals or conditions.

 “Side effects” means physiological responses attributable to a treatment other than the desired effects. In certain embodiments, side effects include, without limitation, injection site reactions, liver function test abnormalities, renal function abnormalities, liver toxicity, renal toxicity, central nervous system abnormalities, myopathies, and malaise. For example, increased aminotransferase levels in serum may indicate liver toxicity or liver function abnormality. For example, increased bilirubin may indicate liver toxicity or liver function abnormality.

 “Single-stranded oligonucleotide” means an oligonucleotide which is not hybridized to a complementary strand. “Single-stranded modified oligonucleotide” means a modified oligonucleotide which is not hybridized to a complementary strand.

 “Specifically hybridizable” means an antisense compound that hybridizes to a target nucleic acid to induce a desired effect, while exhibiting minimal or no effects on non-target nucleic acids. For example, specifically hybridizable refers to an antisense compound having a sufficient degree of complementarity between an antisense oligonucleotide and a target nucleic acid to induce a desired effect, while exhibiting minimal or no effects on non-target nucleic acids under conditions in which specific binding is desired, i.e. under physiological conditions in the case of in vivo assays and therapeutic treatments.

 “Stringent hybridization conditions” means conditions under which a nucleic acid molecule, such as an antisense compound, will hybridize to a target nucleic acid sequence, but to a minimal number of other sequences. Stringent conditions are sequence-dependent and will vary in different circumstances. In the context of this invention, stringent conditions under which oligomeric compounds hybridize to a target sequence are determined by the nature and composition of the oligomeric compounds and the assays in which they are being investigated.

 “Targeted” or “targeted to” means having a nucleobase sequence that will allow specific hybridization of an antisense compound to a target nucleic acid to induce a desired effect. In certain embodiments, a desired effect is reduction of a target nucleic acid. In certain embodiments, a desired effect is reduction of a Factor 7 mRNA.

 “Targeting” means the process of design and selection of an antisense compound that will specifically hybridize to a target nucleic acid and induce a desired effect.

 “Target nucleic acid,” “target RNA,” “target RNA transcript,” and “nucleic acid target” all mean a nucleic acid capable of being targeted by antisense compounds.

 “Target segment” means the sequence of nucleotides of a target nucleic acid to which an antisense compound is targeted. “5′ target site” refers to the 5′-most nucleotide of a target segment. “3′ target site” refers to the 3′-most nucleotide of a target segment.

 “Target region” or “active target region” means a portion of a target nucleic acid to which one or more antisense compounds is targeted.

 “Therapeutically effective amount” means an amount of a pharmaceutical agent that provides a therapeutic benefit to an individual.

 “Thromboembolic complication” means any disease, disorder, or condition involving an embolism caused by a thrombus. Examples of such diseases, disorders, and conditions include the categories of thrombosis, embolism, and thromboembolism. In certain embodiments, such disease disorders, and conditions include deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, myocardial infarction, and stroke.

 “Treat” refers to administering a pharmaceutical composition to effect an alteration or improvement of a disease, disorder, or condition.

 “Unmodified nucleotide” means a nucleotide composed of naturally occuring nucleobases, sugar moieties, and internucleoside linkages. In certain embodiments, an unmodified nucleotide is an RNA nucleotide (i.e. β-D-ribonucleosides) or a DNA nucleotide (i.e. β-D-deoxyribonucleoside).

 Certain Embodiments

 Embodiments of the present invention provide methods, compounds, and compositions for modulating expression of Factor 7 mRNA and protein. In certain embodiments, expression of Factor 7 mRNA and protein is decreased. In certain embodiments, Factor 7 specific inhibitors modulate expression of Factor 7 mRNA and protein. In certain embodiments, Factor 7 specific inhibitors are nucleic acids, proteins, or small molecules.

 In certain embodiments, modulation can occur in a cell or tissue. In certain embodiments, the cell or tissue is in an animal. In certain embodiments, the animal is a human. In certain embodiments, Factor 7 mRNA levels are reduced. In certain embodiments, Factor 7 protein levels are reduced. Such reduction can occur in a time-dependent manner or in a dose-dependent manner.

 Embodiments of the present invention provide methods, compounds, and compositions for the treatment, prevention, or amelioration of diseases, disorders, and conditions associated with Factor 7 in an individual in need thereof. In certain embodiments, such diseases, disorders, and conditions are thromboembolic complications. Such thromboembolic complications include the categories of thrombosis, embolism, and thromboembolism. In certain embodiments such thromboembolic complications include deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, myocardial infarction, and stroke.

 Such diseases, disorders, and conditions can have one or more risk factors, causes, or outcomes in common. Certain risk factors and causes for development of a thromboembolic complication include immobility, surgery (particularly orthopedic surgery), malignancy, pregnancy, older age, use of oral contraceptives, atrial fibrillation, previous thromboembolic complication, chronic inflammatory disease, and inherited or acquired prothrombotic clotting disorders. Certain outcomes associated with development of a thromboembolic complication include decreased blood flow through an affected vessel, death of tissue, and death of the individual. Certain risk factors and causes for development of a hyperproliferative disorder include genetic factors, such as gene mutations and chromosomal aberrations, which may or may not be inherited; and environmental factors, which include, but are not limited to, exposure to known mutagens, such as high energy radiation from radioactive elements, X-rays, gamma rays, microwaves, and ultraviolet light; certain industrial chemicals; pollutants such as cigarette smoke; certain pesticides; drugs, and viruses. Certain outcomes associated with development of a hyperproliferative disorder include non-malignant tumors, pre-malignant tumors and malignant tissues in an individual. Certain risk factors and causes for development of an inflammatory condition include any noxious stimulus that causes a cellular response to an underlying pathophysiologic condition, which includes but is not limited to bacterial and viral infections, and allergens. Inflammation is mediated by cytokines, which are secreted by the host macrophages, T-lymphocytes, endothelial cells. Certain outcomes associated with development of an inflammatory condition include redness, pain, swelling at the affected area, loss of function, morbidity and mortality of the individual.

 In certain embodiments, methods of treatment include administering a Factor 7 specific inhibitor to an individual in need thereof.

 In certain embodiments, the present invention provides methods and compounds for the preparation of a medicament for the treatment, prevention, or amelioration of a disease, disorder, or condition associated with Factor 7. Factor 7 associated diseases, disorders, and conditions include thromboembolic complications, hyperproliferative disorders, and inflammatory conditions. Thromboembolic complications include thrombosis, embolism, thromboembolism, deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, myocardial infarction, and stroke. Hyperproliferative disorders include cancer. Inflammatory conditions include rheumatoid arthritis and fibrosis.

 Embodiments of the present invention provide a Factor 7 specific inhibitor for use in treating, preventing, or ameliorating a Factor 7 associated disease. In certain embodiments, Factor 7 specific inhibitors are nucleic acids (including antisense compounds), peptides, antibodies, small molecules, and other agents capable of inhibiting the expression of Factor 7 mRNA and/or Factor 7 protein.

 Embodiments of the present invention provide a Factor 7 specific inhibitor, as described herein, for use in treating, preventing, or ameliorating thromboembolic complications such as thrombosis, embolism, thromboembolism, deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, myocardial infarction, and stroke.

 Embodiments of the present invention provide a Factor 7 specific inhibitor, as described herein, for use in treating, preventing, or ameliorating a thromboembolic complication, as described herein, by combination therapy with an additional agent or therapy, as described herein. Agents or therapies can be co-administered or administered concomitantly.

 Embodiments of the present invention provide the use of a Factor 7 specific inhibitor, as described herein, in the manufacture of a medicament for treating, preventing, or ameliorating a thromboembolic complication, as described herein, by combination therapy with an additional agent or therapy, as described herein. Agents or therapies can be co-administered or administered concomitantly.

 Embodiments of the present invention provide the use of a Factor 7 specific inhibitor, as described herein, in the manufacture of a medicament for treating, preventing, or ameliorating a thromboembolic complication, as described herein, in a patient who is subsequently administered an additional agent or therapy, as described herein.

 Embodiments of the present invention provide a kit for treating, preventing, or ameliorating a thromboembolic complication, as described herein, wherein the kit comprises:
 
 (i) a Factor 7 specific inhibitor as described herein; and alternatively

 (ii) an additional agent or therapy as described herein.

 A kit of the present invention may further include instructions for using the kit to treat, prevent, or ameliorate a thromboembolic complication, as described herein, by combination therapy, as described herein.

 Embodiments of the present invention provide antisense compounds targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid. In certain embodiments, the human Factor 7 nucleic acid is any of the sequences set forth in GENBANK Accession No. NT — 027140.6, truncated at 1255000 to 1273000 (incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO: 1), GENBANK Accession No. NM — 019616.2, (incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO: 2), GENBANK Accession No. DB184141.1 (incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO: 3), and GENBANK® Accession No. NM — 000131.3 (incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO: 167). In certain embodiments, the rhesus monkey Factor 7 nucleic acid is any of the sequences set forth in GENBANK Accession No NW — 001104507.1, truncated at nucleotides 691000 to 706000 (incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO: 162) and GENBANK Accession No. 3360 — 061_B (incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO: 163). In certain embodiments, the murine Factor 7 nucleic acid is the sequence set forth in GENBANK Accession No. NT — 039455.6, truncated at nucleotides 10024000 to 10037000 (incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO: 160).

 Antisense Compounds

 Oligomeric compounds include, but are not limited to, oligonucleotides, oligonucleosides, oligonucleotide analogs, oligonucleotide mimetics, antisense compounds, antisense oligonucleotides, and siRNAs. An oligomeric compound may be “antisense” to a target nucleic acid, meaning that it is capable of undergoing hybridization to a target nucleic acid through hydrogen bonding.

 In certain embodiments, an antisense compound has a nucleobase sequence that, when written in the 5′ to 3′ direction, comprises the reverse complement of the target segment of a target nucleic acid to which it is targeted. In certain such embodiments, an antisense oligonucleotide has a nucleobase sequence that, when written in the 5′ to 3′ direction, comprises the reverse complement of the target segment of a target nucleic acid to which it is targeted.

 In certain embodiments, an antisense compound targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid is 12 to 30 subunits in length. In other words, antisense compounds are from 12 to 30 linked subunits. In other embodiments, the antisense compound is 8 to 80, 12 to 50, 15 to 30, 18 to 24, 19 to 22, or 20 linked subunits. In certain such embodiments, the antisense compounds are 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, or 80 linked subunits in length, or a range defined by any two of the above values. In some embodiments the antisense compound is an antisense oligonucleotide, and the linked subunits are nucleotides.

 In certain embodiments, a shortened or truncated antisense compound targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid has a single subunit deleted from the 5′ end (5′ truncation), or alternatively from the 3′ end (3′ truncation). A shortened or truncated antisense compound targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid may have two subunits deleted from the 5′ end, or alternatively may have two subunits deleted from the 3′ end, of the antisense compound. Alternatively, the deleted nucleosides may be dispersed throughout the antisense compound; for example, in an antisense compound having one nucleoside deleted from the 5′ end and one nucleoside deleted from the 3′ end.

 When a single additional subunit is present in a lengthened antisense compound, the additional subunit may be located at the 5′ or 3′ end of the antisense compound. When two or more additional subunits are present, the added subunits may be adjacent to each other; for example, in an antisense compound having two subunits added to the 5′ end (5′ addition), or alternatively to the 3′ end (3′ addition), of the antisense compound. Alternatively, the added subunits may be dispersed throughout the antisense compound, for example, in an antisense compound having one subunit added to the 5′ end and one subunit added to the 3′ end.

 It is possible to increase or decrease the length of an antisense compound, such as an antisense oligonucleotide, and/or introduce mismatch bases without eliminating activity. For example, in Woolf et al. (Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89:7305-7309, 1992), a series of antisense oligonucleotides 13-25 nucleobases in length were tested for their ability to induce cleavage of a target RNA in an oocyte injection model. Antisense oligonucleotides 25 nucleobases in length with 8 or 11 mismatch bases near the ends of the antisense oligonucleotides were able to direct specific cleavage of the target mRNA, albeit to a lesser extent than the antisense oligonucleotides that contained no mismatches. Similarly, target specific cleavage was achieved using 13 nucleobase antisense oligonucleotides, including those with 1 or 3 mismatches.

 Gautschi et al. (J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 93:463-471, March 2001) demonstrated the ability of an oligonucleotide having 100% complementarity to the bcl-2 mRNA and having 3 mismatches to the bcl-xL mRNA to reduce the expression of both bcl-2 and bcl-xL in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, this oligonucleotide demonstrated potent anti-tumor activity in vivo.

 Maher and Dolnick (Nuc. Acid. Res. 16:3341-3358, 1988) tested a series of tandem 14 nucleobase antisense oligonucleotides, and 28 and 42 nucleobase antisense oligonucleotides comprised of the sequence of two or three of the tandem antisense oligonucleotides, respectively, for their ability to arrest translation of human DHFR in a rabbit reticulocyte assay. Each of the three 14 nucleobase antisense oligonucleotides alone was able to inhibit translation, albeit at a more modest level than the 28 or 42 nucleobase antisense oligonucleotides.

 Antisense Compound Motifs

 In certain embodiments, antisense compounds targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid have chemically modified subunits arranged in patterns, or motifs, to confer to the antisense compounds properties, such as enhanced inhibitory activity, increased binding affinity for a target nucleic acid, or resistance to degradation by in vivo nucleases.

 Chimeric antisense compounds typically contain at least one region modified so as to confer increased resistance to nuclease degradation, increased cellular uptake, increased binding affinity for the target nucleic acid, and/or increased inhibitory activity. A second region of a chimeric antisense compound may optionally serve as a substrate for the cellular endonuclease RNase H, which cleaves the RNA strand of an RNA:DNA duplex.

 Antisense compounds having a gapmer motif are considered chimeric antisense compounds. In a gapmer, an internal region having a plurality of nucleotides that supports RNaseH cleavage is positioned between external regions having a plurality of nucleotides that are chemically distinct from the nucleosides of the internal region. In the case of an antisense oligonucleotide having a gapmer motif, the gap segment supports cleavage of the target nucleic acid, while the wing segments comprise modified nucleosides to enhance stability, affinity, and exonuclease resistance. In certain embodiments, the regions of a gapmer are differentiated by the types of sugar moieties comprising each distinct region. The types of sugar moieties that are used to differentiate the regions of a gapmer may, in some embodiments, include β-D-ribonucleosides, β-D-deoxyribonucleosides, 2′-modified nucleosides (such 2′-modified nucleosides may include 2′-MOE, and 2′-O—CH 3 , among others), and bicyclic sugar modified nucleosides (such bicyclic sugar modified nucleosides may include those having a 4′-(CH2)n-O-2′ bridge, where n=1 or n=2). Preferably, each distinct region comprises uniform sugar moieties. The wing-gap-wing motif is frequently described as “X-Y-Z”, where “X” represents the length of the 5′ wing region, “Y” represents the length of the gap region, and “Z” represents the length of the 3′ wing region. As used herein, a gapmer described as “X-Y-Z” has a configuration such that the gap segment is positioned immediately adjacent each of the 5′ wing segment and the 3′ wing segment. Thus, no intervening nucleotides exist between the 5′ wing segment and gap segment, or the gap segment and the 3′ wing segment. Any of the antisense compounds described herein can have a gapmer motif. In some embodiments, X and Z are the same, in other embodiments they are different. In a preferred embodiment, Y is between 8 and 15 nucleotides. X, Y or Z can be any of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 30, or more nucleotides. Thus, gapmers of the present invention include, but are not limited to, for example, 5-10-5, 4-8-4, 4-12-3, 4-12-4, 3-14-3, 2-13-5, 2-16-2, 1-18-1, 3-10-3, 2-10-2, 1-10-1 or 2-8-2.

 In certain embodiments, the antisense compound has a “wingmer” motif, having a wing-gap or gap-wing configuration, i.e. an X-Y or Y-Z configuration, as described above, for the gapmer configuration. Thus, wingmer configurations of the present invention include, but are not limited to, for example, 5-10, 8-4, 4-12, 12-4, 3-14, 16-2, 18-1, 10-3, 2-10, 1-10, 8-2, 2-13, or 5-13.

 In certain embodiments, antisense compounds targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid possess a 5-10-5 gapmer motif.

 In certain embodiments, antisense compounds targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid possess a 3-14-3 gapmer motif.

 In certain embodiments, antisense compounds targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid possess a 2-13-5 gapmer motif.

 In certain embodiments, antisense compounds targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid possess a 2-12-2 gapmer motif

 In certain embodiments, an antisense compound targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid has a gap-widened motif.

 In certain embodiments, a gap-widened antisense oligonucleotide targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid has a gap segment of fourteen 2′-deoxyribonucleotides positioned immediately adjacent to and between wing segments of three chemically modified nucleosides. In certain embodiments, the chemical modification comprises a 2′-sugar modification. In another embodiment, the chemical modification comprises a 2′-MOE sugar modification.

 In certain embodiments, a gap-widened antisense oligonucleotide targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid has a gap segment of thirteen 2′-deoxyribonucleotides positioned immediately adjacent to and between a 5′ wing segment of two chemically modified nucleosides and a 3′ wing segment of five chemically modified nucleosides. In certain embodiments, the chemical modification comprises a 2′-sugar modification. In another embodiment, the chemical modification comprises a 2′-MOE sugar modification.

 Target Nucleic Acids, Target Regions and Nucleotide Sequences

 Nucleotide sequences that encode the Factor 7 gene sequence include, without limitation, the following: GENBANK® Accession No. NT — 027140.6, truncated from 1255000 to 1273000, first deposited with GENBANK® on Jul. 17, 2001, incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO: 1; GENBANK Accession No. NM — 019616.2, first deposited with GENBANK® on Oct. 3, 2000, and incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO: 2; GENBANK® Accession No. DB184141.1, first deposited with GENBANK® on Dec. 11, 2005, incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO: 3; GENBANK Accession No. NM — 000131.3, first deposited with GENBANK® on Mar. 24, 1999, and incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO: 167; GENBANK Accession No. NT — 039455.6, truncated at nucleotides 10024000 to 10037000, first deposited with GENBANK® on Feb. 24, 2003, and incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO: 160; GENBANK Accession No. NW — 00104507.1, incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO: 162; and GENBANK Accession No. 3360 — 061_B, incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO: 163.

 It is understood that the sequence set forth in each SEQ ID NO in the Examples contained herein is independent of any modification to a sugar moiety, an internucleoside linkage, or a nucleobase. As such, antisense compounds defined by a SEQ ID NO may comprise, independently, one or more modifications to a sugar moiety, an internucleoside linkage, or a nucleobase. Antisense compounds described by Isis Number (Isis No.) indicate a combination of nucleobase sequence and motif.

 In certain embodiments, a target region is a structurally defined region of the target nucleic acid. For example, a target region may encompass a 3′ UTR, a 5′ UTR, an exon, an intron, an exon/intron junction, a coding region, a translation initiation region, a translation termination region, or other defined nucleic acid regions. The structurally defined regions for Factor 7 gene sequences can be obtained by accession number from sequence databases, such as NCBI, and such information is incorporated herein by reference. In certain embodiments, a target region may encompass the sequence from a 5′ target site of one target segment within the target region to a 3′ target site of another target segment within the target region.

 Targeting includes determination of at least one target segment to which an antisense compound hybridizes, such that a desired effect occurs. In certain embodiments, the desired effect is a reduction in mRNA target nucleic acid levels. In certain embodiments, the desired effect is reduction of levels of protein encoded by the target nucleic acid or a phenotypic change associated with the target nucleic acid.

 A target region may contain one or more target segments. Multiple target segments within a target region may be overlapping. Alternatively, they may be non-overlapping. In certain embodiments, target segments within a target region are separated by no more than about 300 nucleotides. In certain embodiments, target segments within a target region are separated by a number of nucleotides that is, is about, is no more than, is no more than about, 250, 200, 150, 100, 90, 80, 70, 60, 50, 40, 30, 20, or 10 nucleotides on the target nucleic acid, or is a range defined by any two of the preceding values. In certain embodiments, target segments within a target region are separated by no more than, or no more than about, 5 nucleotides on the target nucleic acid. In certain embodiments, target segments are contiguous. Contemplated are target regions defined by a range having a starting nucleic acid that is any of the 5′ target sites or 3′ target sites listed herein.

 Suitable target segments may be found within a 5′ UTR, a coding region, a 3′ UTR, an intron, an exon, or an exon/intron junction. Target segments containing a start codon or a stop codon are also suitable target segments. A suitable target segment may specifically exclude a certain structurally defined region, such as the start codon or stop codon.

 The determination of suitable target segments may include a comparison of the sequence of a target nucleic acid to other sequences throughout the genome. For example, the BLAST algorithm may be used to identify regions of similarity amongst different nucleic acids. This comparison can prevent the selection of antisense compound sequences that may hybridize in a non-specific manner to sequences other than a selected target nucleic acid (i.e., non-target or off-target sequences).

 There may be variation in activity (e.g., as defined by percent reduction of target nucleic acid levels) of the antisense compounds within an active target region. In certain embodiments, reductions in Factor 7 mRNA levels are indicative of inhibition of Factor 7 expression. Reductions in levels of a Factor 7 protein are also indicative of inhibition of target mRNA expression. Further, phenotypic changes are indicative of inhibition of Factor 7 expression. For example, a prolonged PT time can be indicative of inhibition of Factor 7 expression. In another example, prolonged aPTT time in conjunction with a prolonged PT time can be indicative of inhibition of Factor 7 expression. In another example, a decreased level of Platelet Factor 4 (PF-4) expression can be indicative of inhibition of Factor 7 expression. In another example, reduced formation of thrombus or increased time for thrombus formation can be indicative of inhibition of Factor 7 expression.

 Hybridization

 In some embodiments, hybridization occurs between an antisense compound disclosed herein and a Factor 7 nucleic acid. The most common mechanism of hybridization involves hydrogen bonding (e.g., Watson-Crick, Hoogsteen or reversed Hoogsteen hydrogen bonding) between complementary nucleobases of the nucleic acid molecules.

 Hybridization can occur under varying conditions. Stringent conditions are sequence-dependent and are determined by the nature and composition of the nucleic acid molecules to be hybridized.

 Methods of determining whether a sequence is specifically hybridizable to a target nucleic acid are well known in the art. In certain embodiments, the antisense compounds provided herein are specifically hybridizable with a Factor 7 nucleic acid.

 Complementarity

 An antisense compound and a target nucleic acid are complementary to each other when a sufficient number of nucleobases of the antisense compound can hydrogen bond with the corresponding nucleobases of the target nucleic acid, such that a desired effect will occur (e.g., antisense inhibition of a target nucleic acid, such as a Factor 7 nucleic acid).

 Non-complementary nucleobases between an antisense compound and a Factor 7 nucleic acid may be tolerated provided that the antisense compound remains able to specifically hybridize to a target nucleic acid. Moreover, an antisense compound may hybridize over one or more segments of a Factor 7 nucleic acid such that intervening or adjacent segments are not involved in the hybridization event (e.g., a loop structure, mismatch or hairpin structure).

 In certain embodiments, the antisense compounds provided herein, or a specified portion thereof, are, or are at least, 70%, 80%, 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, or 100% complementary to a Factor 7 nucleic acid, a target region, target segment, or specified portion thereof. Percent complementarity of an antisense compound with a target nucleic acid can be determined using routine methods.

 For example, an antisense compound in which 18 of 20 nucleobases of the antisense compound are complementary to a target region, and would therefore specifically hybridize, would represent 90 percent complementarity. In this example, the remaining non-complementary nucleobases may be clustered or interspersed with complementary nucleobases and need not be contiguous to each other or to complementary nucleobases. As such, an antisense compound which is 18 nucleobases in length having 4 (four) non-complementary nucleobases which are flanked by two regions of complete complementarity with the target nucleic acid would have 77.8% overall complementarity with the target nucleic acid and would thus fall within the scope of the present invention. Percent complementarity of an antisense compound with a region of a target nucleic acid can be determined routinely using BLAST programs (basic local alignment search tools) and PowerBLAST programs known in the art (Altschul et al., J. Mol. Biol., 1990, 215, 403 410; Zhang and Madden, Genome Res., 1997, 7, 649 656). Percent homology, sequence identity or complementarity can be determined by, for example, the Gap program (Wisconsin Sequence Analysis Package, Version 8 for Unix, Genetics Computer Group, University Research Park, Madison Wis.), using default settings, which uses the algorithm of Smith and Waterman (Adv. Appl. Math., 1981, 2, 482 489).

 In certain embodiments, the antisense compounds provided herein, or specified portions thereof, are fully complementary (i.e. 100% complementary) to a target nucleic acid, or specified portion thereof. For example, antisense compound may be fully complementary to a Factor 7 nucleic acid, or a target region, or a target segment or target sequence thereof. As used herein, “fully complementary” means each nucleobase of an antisense compound is capable of precise base pairing with the corresponding nucleobases of a target nucleic acid. For example, a 20 nucleobase antisense compound is fully complementary to a target sequence that is 400 nucleobases long, so long as there is a corresponding 20 nucleobase portion of the target nucleic acid that is fully complementary to the antisense compound. Fully complementary can also be used in reference to a specified portion of the first and/or the second nucleic acid. For example, a 20 nucleobase portion of a 30 nucleobase antisense compound can be “fully complementary” to a target sequence that is 400 nucleobases long. The 20 nucleobase portion of the 30 nucleobase oligonucleotide is fully complementary to the target sequence if the target sequence has a corresponding 20 nucleobase portion wherein each nucleobase is complementary to each nucleobase of the 20 nucleobase portion of the antisense compound. At the same time, the entire 30 nucleobase antisense compound may or may not be fully complementary to the target sequence, depending on whether the remaining 10 nucleobases of the antisense compound are also complementary to the target sequence.

 The location of a non-complementary nucleobase may be at the 5′ end or 3′ end of the antisense compound. Alternatively, the non-complementary nucleobase or nucleobases may be at an internal position of the antisense compound. When two or more non-complementary nucleobases are present, they may be contiguous (i.e. linked) or non-contiguous. In one embodiment, a non-complementary nucleobase is located in the wing segment of a gapmer antisense oligonucleotide.

 In certain embodiments, antisense compounds that are, or are up to 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, or 20 nucleobases in length comprise no more than 4, no more than 3, no more than 2, or no more than 1 non-complementary nucleobase(s) relative to a target nucleic acid, such as a Factor 7 nucleic acid, or specified portion thereof.

 In certain embodiments, antisense compounds that are, or are up to 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, or 30 nucleobases in length comprise no more than 6, no more than 5, no more than 4, no more than 3, no more than 2, or no more than 1 non-complementary nucleobase(s) relative to a target nucleic acid, such as a Factor 7 nucleic acid, or specified portion thereof.

 The antisense compounds provided herein also include those which are complementary to a portion of a target nucleic acid. As used herein, “portion” refers to a defined number of contiguous (i.e. linked) nucleobases within a region or segment of a target nucleic acid. A “portion” can also refer to a defined number of contiguous nucleobases of an antisense compound. In certain embodiments, the antisense compounds are complementary to at least an 8 nucleobase portion of a target segment. In certain embodiments, the antisense compounds are complementary to at least a 12 nucleobase portion of a target segment. In certain embodiments, the antisense compounds are complementary to at least a 15 nucleobase portion of a target segment. Also contemplated are antisense compounds that are complementary to at least a 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, or more nucleobase portion of a target segment, or a range defined by any two of these values.

 Identity

 The antisense compounds provided herein may also have a defined percent identity to a particular nucleotide sequence, SEQ ID NO, or compound represented by a specific Isis number, or portion thereof. As used herein, an antisense compound is identical to the sequence disclosed herein if it has the same nucleobase pairing ability. For example, a RNA, which contains uracil in place of thymidine in a disclosed DNA sequence, would be considered identical to the DNA sequence since both uracil and thymidine pair with adenine. Shortened and lengthened versions of the antisense compounds described herein, as well as compounds having non-identical bases relative to the antisense compounds provided herein, are also contemplated. The non-identical bases may be adjacent to each other or dispersed throughout the antisense compound. Percent identity of an antisense compound is calculated according to the number of bases that have identical base pairing relative to the sequence to which it is being compared.

 In certain embodiments, the antisense compounds, or portions thereof, are at least 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to one or more of the antisense compounds or SEQ ID NOs, or a portion thereof, disclosed herein.

 Modifications

 A nucleoside is a base-sugar combination. The nucleobase (also known as base) portion of the nucleoside is normally a heterocyclic base moiety. Nucleotides are nucleosides that further include a phosphate group covalently linked to the sugar portion of the nucleoside. For those nucleosides that include a pentofuranosyl sugar, the phosphate group can be linked to the 2′, 3′ or 5′ hydroxyl moiety of the sugar. Oligonucleotides are formed through the covalent linkage of adjacent nucleosides to one another, to form a linear polymeric oligonucleotide. Within the oligonucleotide structure, the phosphate groups are commonly referred to as forming the internucleoside linkages of the oligonucleotide.

 Modifications to antisense compounds encompass substitutions or changes to intemucleoside linkages, sugar moieties, or nucleobases. Modified antisense compounds are often preferred over native forms because of desirable properties such as, for example, enhanced cellular uptake, enhanced affinity for nucleic acid target, increased stability in the presence of nucleases, or increased inhibitory activity.

 Chemically modified nucleosides may also be employed to increase the binding affinity of a shortened or truncated antisense oligonucleotide for its target nucleic acid. Consequently, comparable results can often be obtained with shorter antisense compounds that have such chemically modified nucleosides.

 Modified Internucleoside Linkages

 The naturally occurring internucleoside linkage of RNA and DNA is a 3′ to 5′ phosphodiester linkage. Antisense compounds having one or more modified, i.e. non-naturally occurring, internucleoside linkages are often selected over antisense compounds having naturally occurring internucleoside linkages because of desirable properties, such as, for example, enhanced cellular uptake, enhanced affinity for target nucleic acids, and increased stability in the presence of nucleases.

 Oligonucleotides having modified internucleoside linkages include internucleoside linkages that retain a phosphorus atom as well as internucleoside linkages that do not have a phosphorus atom. Representative phosphorus containing internucleoside linkages include, but are not limited to, phosphodiesters, phosphotriesters, methylphosphonates, phosphoramidate, and phosphorothioates. Methods of preparation of phosphorous-containing and non-phosphorous-containing linkages are well known.

 In certain embodiments, antisense compounds targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid comprise one or more modified internucleoside linkages. In certain embodiments, the modified internucleoside linkages are phosphorothioate linkages. In certain embodiments, each internucleoside linkage of an antisense compound is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage.

 Modified Sugar Moieties

 Antisense compounds of the invention can optionally contain one or more nucleosides wherein the sugar group has been modified. Such sugar modified nucleosides may impart enhanced nuclease stability, increased binding affinity or some other beneficial biological property to the antisense compounds. In certain embodiments, nucleosides comprise chemically modified ribofuranose ring moieties. Examples of chemically modified ribofuranose rings include, without limitation, addition of substituent groups (including 5′ and 2′ substituent groups, bridging of non-geminal ring atoms to form bicyclic nucleic acids (BNA), replacement of the ribosyl ring oxygen atom with S, N(R), or C(R1)(R)2 (R═H, C1-C12 alkyl or a protecting group) and combinations thereof. Examples of chemically modified sugars include 2′-F-5′-methyl substituted nucleoside (see PCT International Application WO 2008/101157, published on Aug. 21, 2008, for other disclosed 5′,2′-bis substituted nucleosides) or replacement of the ribosyl ring oxygen atom with ‘S’ and with further substitution at the 2′-position (see U.S. Patent. Application US2005-0130923, published on Jun. 16, 2005) or alternatively 5′-substitution of a BNA (see PCT International Application WO 2007/134181, published on Nov. 22, 2007, wherein LNA is substituted with, for example, a 5′-methyl or a 5′-vinyl group).

 Examples of nucleosides having modified sugar moieties include, without limitation, nucleosides comprising 5′-vinyl, 5′-methyl (R or S), 4′-S, 2′-F, 2′-OCH 3 and 2′-O(CH 2 )2OCH 3 substituent groups. The substituent at the 2′ position can also be selected from allyl, amino, azido, thio, O-allyl, O—C1-C10 alkyl, OCF 3 , O(CH 2 )2SCH 3 , O(CH 2 ) 2 —O—N(Rm)(Rn), and O—CH 2 —C(═O)—N(Rm)(Rn), where each Rm and Rn is, independently, H or substituted or unsubstituted C1-C10 alkyl.

 Examples of bicyclic nucleic acids (BNAs) include, without limitation, nucleosides comprising a bridge between the 4′ and the 2′ ribosyl ring atoms. In certain embodiments, antisense compounds provided herein include one or more BNA nucleosides, wherein the bridge comprises one of the formulas: 4′-(CH 2 )—O-2′ (LNA); 4′-(CH 2 )—S-2′; 4′-(CH 2 )—O-2′ (LNA); 4′-(CH 2 ) 2 —O-2′ (ENA); 4′-C(CH 3 ) 2 —O-2′ (see PCT/US2008/068922); 4′-CH(CH 3 ) —O-2′ and 4′-C H(CH 2 OCH 3 ) —O-2′ (see U.S. Pat. No. 7,399,845, issued on Jul. 15, 2008); 4′-CH 2 —N(OCH 3 )-2′ (see PCT/US2008/064591); 4′-CH 2 —O—N(CH 3 )-2′ (see U.S. Patent Application US2004-0171570, published Sep. 2, 2004); 4′-CH 2 —N(R)—O-2′ (see U.S. Pat. No. 7,427,672, issued on Sep. 23, 2008); 4′-CH 2 —C(CH 3 )-2′ and 4′-CH 2 —C (═CH 2 )-2′ (see PCT/US2008/066154); and wherein R is, independently, H, C1-C12 alkyl, or a protecting group. Each of the foregoing BNAs include various stereochemical sugar configurations, including, for example, α-L-ribofuranose and β-D-ribofuranose (see PCT international application PCT/DK98/00393, published on Mar. 25, 1999 as WO 99/14226).

 In certain embodiments, nucleosides are modified by replacement of the ribosyl ring with a sugar surrogate. Such modification includes, without limitation, replacement of the ribosyl ring with a surrogate ring system (sometimes referred to as DNA analogs), such as a morpholino ring, a cyclohexenyl ring, a cyclohexyl ring or a tetrahydropyranyl ring, such as one having one of the formulas:

 Many other bicyclo and tricyclo sugar surrogate ring systems are also known in the art that can be used to modify nucleosides for incorporation into antisense compounds (see, for example, review article: Leumann, Christian J.). Such ring systems can undergo various additional substitutions to enhance activity.

 Methods for the preparations of modified sugars are well known to those skilled in the art.

 In nucleotides having modified sugar moieties, the nucleobase moieties (natural, modified or a combination thereof) are maintained for hybridization with an appropriate nucleic acid target.

 In certain embodiments, antisense compounds targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid comprise one or more nucleotides having modified sugar moieties. In certain embodiments, the modified sugar moiety is 2′-MOE. In certain embodiments, the 2′-MOE modified nucleotides are arranged in a gapmer motif.

 Modified Nucleobases

 Nucleobase (or base) modifications or substitutions are structurally distinguishable from, yet functionally interchangeable with, naturally occurring or synthetic unmodified nucleobases. Both natural and modified nucleobases are capable of participating in hydrogen bonding. Such nucleobase modifications may impart nuclease stability, binding affinity or some other beneficial biological property to antisense compounds. Modified nucleobases include synthetic and natural nucleobases such as, for example, 5-methylcytosine (5-me-C). Certain nucleobase substitutions, including 5-methylcytosine substitutions, are particularly useful for increasing the binding affinity of an antisense compound for a target nucleic acid. For example, 5-methylcytosine substitutions have been shown to increase nucleic acid duplex stability by 0.6-1.2° C. (Sanghvi, Y. S., Crooke, S. T. and Lebleu, B., eds., Antisense Research and Applications , CRC Press, Boca Raton, 1993, pp. 276-278).

 Additional modified nucleobases include 5-hydroxymethyl cytosine, xanthine, hypoxanthine, 2-aminoadenine, 6-methyl and other alkyl derivatives of adenine and guanine, 2-propyl and other alkyl derivatives of adenine and guanine, 2-thiouracil, 2-thiothymine and 2-thiocytosine, 5-halouracil and cytosine, 5-propynyl (—C≡C—CH 3 ) uracil and cytosine and other alkynyl derivatives of pyrimidine bases, 6-azo uracil, cytosine and thymine, 5-uracil (pseudouracil), 4-thiouracil, 8-halo, 8-amino, 8-thiol, 8-thioalkyl, 8-hydroxyl and other 8-substituted adenines and guanines, 5-halo particularly, 5-bromo, 5-trifluoromethyl and other 5-substituted uracils and cytosines, 7-methylguanine and 7-methyladenine, 2-F-adenine, 2-amino-adenine, 8-azaguanine and 8-azaadenine, 7-deazaguanine and 7-deazaadenine, and 3-deazaguanine and 3-deazaadenine.

 Heterocyclic base moieties may also include those in which the purine or pyrimidine base is replaced with other heterocycles, for example 7-deaza-adenine, 7-deazaguanosine, 2-aminopyridine and 2-pyridone. Nucleobases that are particularly useful for increasing the binding affinity of antisense compounds include 5-substituted pyrimidines, 6-azapyrimidines and N-2, N-6 and O-6 substituted purines, including 2 aminopropyladenine, 5-propynyluracil and 5-propynylcytosine.

 In certain embodiments, antisense compounds targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid comprise one or more modified nucleobases. In certain embodiments, gap-widened antisense oligonucleotides targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid comprise one or more modified nucleobases. In certain embodiments, the modified nucleobase is 5-methylcytosine. In certain embodiments, each cytosine is a 5-methylcytosine.

 Compositions and Methods for Formulating Pharmaceutical Compositions

 Antisense oligonucleotides may be admixed with pharmaceutically acceptable active or inert substances for the preparation of pharmaceutical compositions or formulations. Compositions and methods for the formulation of pharmaceutical compositions are dependent upon a number of criteria, including, but not limited to, route of administration, extent of disease, or dose to be administered.

 Antisense compounds targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid can be utilized in pharmaceutical compositions by combining the antisense compound with a suitable pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier. A pharmaceutically acceptable diluent includes phosphate-buffered saline (PBS). PBS is a diluent suitable for use in compositions to be delivered parenterally. Accordingly, in one embodiment employed in the methods described herein is a pharmaceutical composition comprising an antisense compound targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid and a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent. In certain embodiments, the pharmaceutically acceptable diluent is PBS. In certain embodiments, the antisense compound is an antisense oligonucleotide.

 Pharmaceutical compositions comprising antisense compounds encompass any pharmaceutically acceptable salts, esters, or salts of such esters, or any other oligonucleotide which, upon administration to an animal, including a human, is capable of providing (directly or indirectly) the biologically active metabolite or residue thereof. Accordingly, for example, the disclosure is also drawn to pharmaceutically acceptable salts of antisense compounds, prodrugs, pharmaceutically acceptable salts of such prodrugs, and other bioequivalents. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts include, but are not limited to, sodium and potassium salts.

 A prodrug can include the incorporation of additional nucleosides at one or both ends of an antisense compound which are cleaved by endogenous nucleases within the body, to form the active antisense compound.

 Conjugated Antisense Compounds

 Antisense compounds may be covalently linked to one or more moieties or conjugates which enhance the activity, cellular distribution or cellular uptake of the resulting antisense oligonucleotides. Typical conjugate groups include cholesterol moieties and lipid moieties. Additional conjugate groups include carbohydrates, phospholipids, biotin, phenazine, folate, phenanthridine, anthraquinone, acridine, fluoresceins, rhodamines, coumarins, and dyes.

 Antisense compounds can also be modified to have one or more stabilizing groups that are generally attached to one or both termini of antisense compounds to enhance properties such as, for example, nuclease stability. Included in stabilizing groups are cap structures. These terminal modifications protect the antisense compound having terminal nucleic acid from exonuclease degradation, and can help in delivery and/or localization within a cell. The cap can be present at the 5′-terminus (5′-cap), or at the 3′-terminus (3′-cap), or can be present on both termini. Cap structures are well known in the art and include, for example, inverted deoxy abasic caps. Further 3′ and 5′-stabilizing groups that can be used to cap one or both ends of an antisense compound to impart nuclease stability include those disclosed in WO 03/004602, published on Jan. 16, 2003.

 Cell Culture and Antisense Compounds Treatment

 The effects of antisense compounds on the level, activity or expression of Factor 7 nucleic acids can be tested in vitro in a variety of cell types. Cell types used for such analyses are available from commerical vendors (e.g. American Type Culture Collection, Manassus, Va.; Zen-Bio, Inc., Research Triangle Park, N.C.; Clonetics Corporation, Walkersville, Md.) and cells are cultured according to the vendor's instructions using commercially available reagents (e.g. Invitrogen Life Technologies, Carlsbad, Calif.). Illustrative cell types include HepG2 cells, HepB3 cells, and primary hepatocytes.

 In Vitro Testing of Antisense Oligonucleotides

 Described herein are methods for treatment of cells with antisense oligonucleotides, which can be modified appropriately for treatment with other antisense compounds.

 In general, cells are treated with antisense oligonucleotides when the cells reach approximately 60-80% confluency in culture.

 One reagent commonly used to introduce antisense oligonucleotides into cultured cells includes the cationic lipid transfection reagent LIPOFECTIN® (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, Calif.). Antisense oligonucleotides are mixed with LIPOFECTIN® in OPTI-MEM® 1 (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, Calif.) to achieve the desired final concentration of antisense oligonucleotide and a LIPOFECTIN® concentration that typically ranges 2 to 12 ug/mL per 100 nM antisense oligonucleotide.

 Another reagent used to introduce antisense oligonucleotides into cultured cells includes LIPOFECTAMINE® (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, Calif.). Antisense oligonucleotide is mixed with LIPOFECTAMINE® in OPTI-MEM® 1 reduced serum medium (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, Calif.) to achieve the desired concentration of antisense oligonucleotide and a LIPOFECTAMINE® concentration that typically ranges 2 to 12 ug/mL per 100 nM antisense oligonucleotide.

 Another technique used to introduce antisense oligonucleotides into cultured cells includes electroporation.

 Cells are treated with antisense oligonucleotides by routine methods. Cells are typically harvested 16-24 hours after antisense oligonucleotide treatment, at which time RNA or protein levels of target nucleic acids are measured by methods known in the art and described herein. In general, when treatments are performed in multiple replicates, the data are presented as the average of the replicate treatments.

 The concentration of antisense oligonucleotide used varies from cell line to cell line. Methods to determine the optimal antisense oligonucleotide concentration for a particular cell line are well known in the art. Antisense oligonucleotides are typically used at concentrations ranging from 1 nM to 300 nM when transfected with LIPOFECTIN®. Antisense oligonucleotides are used at higher concentrations ranging from 625 to 20,000 nM when transfected using electroporation.

 RNA Isolation

 RNA analysis can be performed on total cellular RNA or poly(A)+ mRNA. Methods of RNA isolation are well known in the art. RNA is prepared using methods well known in the art, for example, using the TRIZOL® Reagent (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, Calif.), according to the manufacturer's recommended protocols.

 Analysis of Inhibition of Target Levels or Expression

 Inhibition of levels or expression of a Factor 7 nucleic acid can be assayed in a variety of ways known in the art. For example, target nucleic acid levels can be quantitated by, e.g., Northern blot analysis, competitive reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), or quantitative real-time RT-PCR. RNA analysis can be performed on total cellular RNA or poly(A)+ mRNA. Methods of RNA isolation are well known in the art. Northern blot analysis is also routine in the art. Real-time RT-PCR can be conveniently accomplished using the commercially available ABI PRISM® 7600, 7700, or 7900 Sequence Detection System, available from PE-Applied Biosystems, Foster City, Calif., and used according to manufacturer's instructions.

 Quantitative Real-Time RT-PCR Analysis of Target RNA Levels

 Quantitation of target RNA levels may be accomplished by quantitative real-time RT-PCR using the ABI PRISM® 7600, 7700, or 7900 Sequence Detection System (PE-Applied Biosystems, Foster City, Calif.) according to manufacturer's instructions. Methods of real-time RT-PCR are well known in the art.

 Prior to real-time PCR, the isolated RNA is subjected to a reverse transcriptase (RT) reaction, which produces complementary DNA (cDNA) that is then used as the substrate for the real-time PCR amplification. The RT and real-time PCR reactions are performed sequentially in the same sample well. RT and real-time PCR reagents are obtained from Invitrogen (Carlsbad, Calif.). RT and real-time-PCR reactions are carried out by methods well known to those skilled in the art.

 Gene (or RNA) target quantities obtained by real-time RT-PCR are normalized using either the expression level of a gene whose expression is constant, such as cyclophilin A, or by quantifying total RNA using RIBOGREEN® (Invitrogen, Inc. Carlsbad, Calif.). Cyclophilin A expression is quantified by real-time RT-PCR, by being run simultaneously with the target, multiplexing, or separately. Total RNA is quantified using RIBOGREEN® RNA quantification reagent (Invetrogen, Inc. Eugene, Oreg.). Methods of RNA quantification by RIBOGREEN® are taught in Jones, L. J., et al., (Analytical Biochemistry, 1998, 265, 368-374). A CYTOFLUOR® 4000 instrument (PE Applied Biosystems) is used to measure RIBOGREEN® fluorescence.

 Probes and primers are designed to hybridize to a Factor 7 nucleic acid. Methods for designing real-time RT-PCR probes and primers are well known in the art, and may include the use of software such as PRIMER EXPRESS® Software (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, Calif.).

 Analysis of Protein Levels

 Antisense inhibition of Factor 7 nucleic acids can be assessed by measuring Factor 7 protein levels. Protein levels of Factor 7 can be evaluated or quantitated in a variety of ways well known in the art, such as immunoprecipitation, Western blot analysis (immunoblotting), enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), quantitative protein assays, protein activity assays (for example, caspase activity assays), immunohistochemistry, immunocytochemistry or fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS). Antibodies directed to a target can be identified and obtained from a variety of sources, such as the MSRS catalog of antibodies (Aerie Corporation, Birmingham, Miss.), or can be prepared via conventional monoclonal or polyclonal antibody generation methods well known in the art. Antibodies useful for the detection of human and mouse Factor 7 are commercially available.

 In Vivo Testing of Antisense Compounds

 Antisense compounds, for example, antisense oligonucleotides, are tested in animals to assess their ability to inhibit expression of Factor 7 and produce phenotypic changes, such as, prolonged PT, prolonged aPTT time, decreased quantity of Platelet Factor 4 (PF-4), reduced formation of thrombus or increased time for thrombus formation, and reduction of cellular proliferation. Testing may be performed in normal animals, or in experimental disease models. For administration to animals, antisense oligonucleotides are formulated in a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent, such as phosphate-buffered saline. Administration includes parenteral routes of administration, such as intraperitoneal, intravenous, and subcutaneous. Calculation of antisense oligonucleotide dosage and dosing frequency is within the abilities of those skilled in the art, and depends upon factors such as route of administration and animal body weight. Following a period of treatment with antisense oligonucleotides, RNA is isolated from liver tissue and changes in Factor 7 nucleic acid expression are measured. Changes in Factor 7 protein levels are also measured using a thrombin generation assay. In addition, effects on clot times, e.g. PT and aPTT, are determined using plasma from treated animals.

 Certain Indications

 In certain embodiments, the invention provides methods of treating an individual comprising administering one or more pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention. In certain embodiments, the individual has a thromboembolic complication. In certain embodiments, the individual is at risk for a blood clotting disorder, including, but not limited to, infarction, thrombosis, embolism, thromboembolism, such as deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, myocardial infarction, and stroke. This includes individuals with an acquired problem, disease, or disorder that leads to a risk of thrombosis, for example, surgery, cancer, immobility, sepsis, atherosclerosis, atrial fibrillation, as well as genetic predisposition, for example, antiphospholipid syndrome and the autosomal dominant condition, Factor V Leiden. In certain embodiments, the individual has been identified as in need of anti-coagulation therapy. Examples of such individuals include, but are not limited to, those undergoing major orthopedic surgery (e.g., hip/knee replacement or hip fracture surgery) and patients in need of chronic treatment, such as those suffering from atrial fibrillation to prevent stroke. In certain embodiments the invention provides methods for prophylactically reducing Factor 7 expression in an individual. Certain embodiments include treating an individual in need thereof by administering to an individual a therapeutically effective amount of an antisense compound targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid.

 In certain embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions comprising an antisense compound targeted to Factor 7 are used for the preparation of a medicament for treating a patient suffering or susceptible to a thromboembolic complication.

 In certain embodiments, the binding of Factor 7 with Tissue factor to form Tissue Factor-Factor 7a complex may lead to inflammatory conditions, such as liver fibrosis, rheumatoid arthritis, and tumor growth and metastasis.

 In certain embodiments, the individual has an inflammatory condition leading to a fibrosis complication. In certain embodiments, the individual is at risk of an excessive collagen deposition and fibrosis disorder, including, but not limited to, liver fibrosis, arterial sclerosis, chronic glomerulonephritis, cutis keloid formation, progressive systemic sclerosis (PSS), liver fibrosis, pulmonary fibrosis, cystic fibrosis, chronic graft versus host disease, scleroderma (local and systemic), Peyronie's disease, penis fibrosis, urethrostenosis after the test using a cystoscope, inner accretion after surgery, myelofibrosis, idiopathic retroperitoneal fibrosis. In certain embodiments, the individual has been identified as in need of anti-fibrotic therapy. This includes individuals with a genetic or acquired problem, disease, or disorder that leads to a risk of fibrosis, for example, α1-antitrypsin deficiency, copper storage disease (Wilson's disease), fructosemia, galactosemia, glycogen storage diseases (such as, types II, IV, VI, IX, and X), iron overload syndromes (such as, hemochromatosis), lipid abnormalities (such as, Gaucher's disease), peroxisomal disorders (such as, Zellweger syndrome), Tyrsoninemia, congenital hepatic fibrosis, bacterial infection (such as, brucellosis), parasitic infection (such as, echinococcosis), viral infections (such as, chronic hepatitis B, C), disorders affecting hepatic blood flow (such as, Budd Chiari syndrome, heart failure, hepatic veno-occlusive disease, and portal vein thrombosis), alcohol, and drugs (such as amiodarone, chlorpromazine, Isoniazid, Methotrexate, Methyldopa, Oxyphenisatin, and Tolbutamide). In certain embodiments, the individual has been identified as in need of anti-fibrotic therapy. In such embodiments, the tissue factor-Factor 7a (TF/F7a) complex is identified to have the major procoagulant activity in fibrosis. In certain embodiments, the invention provides methods for prophylactically reducing Factor 7 expression in an individual. Certain embodiments include treating an individual in need thereof by administering to an individual a therapeutically effective amount of an antisense compound targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid.

 In certain embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions comprising an antisense compound targeted to Factor 7 are used for the preparation of a medicament for treating a patient suffering or susceptible to a fibrotic complication.

 In certain embodiments, the individual has an inflammatory rheumatoid arthritic complication. In certain embodiments, the individual is at risk for inflammation at the joints and rheumatoid arthritis. In such embodiments, the individual suffers from pain, swelling and tenderness at the joints, fatigue, lack of appetite, low-grade fever, muscle aches and stiffness. In certain embodiments, the individual has been identified as in need of anti-inflammatory arthritic therapy. This includes individuals suffering from rheumatoid arthritis, reactive arthritis, Reiter's syndrome, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, and arthritis associated with inflammatory bowel disease. In certain embodiments, the individual has been identified as in need of anti-inflammatory therapy. In such embodiments, the tissue factor-Factor 7a (TF/F7a) complex is identified to have the major procoagulant activity in inducing arthritis. In certain embodiments the invention provides methods for prophylactically reducing Factor 7 expression in an individual. Certain embodiments include treating an individual in need thereof by administering to an individual a therapeutically effective amount of an antisense compound targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid.

 In certain embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions comprising an antisense compound targeted to Factor 7 are used for the preparation of a medicament for treating a patient suffering or susceptible to an inflammatory arthritic complication.

 In certain embodiments, the individual has a malignant complication. In certain embodiments, the individual is at risk for tumor growth, angiogenesis and metastasis. In such embodiments, the individual suffering from hemostatic abnormalities, such as disseminated intravascular coagulation and venous thromboembolism, may suffer additional complications, such as primary and metastatic tumor growths. In such embodiments, the seeding of tumor metastases is a coagulation-dependent process. In such embodiments, the tissue factor-Factor 7a (TF/F7a) complex is identified to have the major procoagulant activity in cancer. In certain embodiments, the individual has been identified as in need of anti-TF/F7a therapy. In certain embodiments the invention provides methods for prophylactically reducing Factor 7 expression in an individual. Certain embodiments include treating an individual in need thereof by administering to an individual a therapeutically effective amount of an antisense compound targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid.

 In certain embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions comprising an antisense compound targeted to Factor 7 are used for the preparation of a medicament for treating a patient suffering or susceptible to a malignant complication.

 In certain embodiments, administration of a therapeutically effective amount of an antisense compound targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid is accompanied by monitoring of Factor 7 levels in the serum of an individual, to determine an individual's response to administration of the antisense compound. An individual's response to administration of the antisense compound is used by a physician to determine the amount and duration of therapeutic intervention.

 In certain embodiments, administration of an antisense compound targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid results in reduction of Factor 7 expression by at least 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95 or 99%, or a range defined by any two of these values. In certain embodiments, administration of an antisense compound targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid results in a change in a measure of blood clotting, as measured by a standard test, for example, but not limited to, activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) test, prothrombin time (PT) test, thrombin time (TCT), bleeding time, or D-dimer. In certain embodiments, administration of a Factor 7 antisense compound increases the measure by at least 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95 or 99%, or a range defined by any two of these values. In some embodiments, administration of a Factor 7 antisense compound decreases the measure by at least 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95 or 99%, or a range defined by any two of these values.

 In certain embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions comprising an antisense compound targeted to Factor 7 are used for the preparation of a medicament for treating a patient suffering or susceptible to a thromboembolic complication.

 Certain Combination Therapies

 In certain embodiments, one or more pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention are co-administered with one or more other pharmaceutical agents. In certain embodiments, such one or more other pharmaceutical agents are designed to treat the same disease, disorder, or condition as the one or more pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention. In certain embodiments, such one or more other pharmaceutical agents are designed to treat a different disease, disorder, or condition as the one or more pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention. In certain embodiments, such one or more other pharmaceutical agents are designed to treat an undesired side effect of one or more pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention. In certain embodiments, one or more pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention are co-administered with another pharmaceutical agent to treat an undesired effect of that other pharmaceutical agent. In certain embodiments, one or more pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention are co-administered with another pharmaceutical agent to produce a combinational effect. In certain embodiments, one or more pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention are co-administered with another pharmaceutical agent to produce a synergistic effect.

 In certain embodiments, one or more pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention and one or more other pharmaceutical agents are administered at the same time. In certain embodiments, one or more pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention and one or more other pharmaceutical agents are administered at different times. In certain embodiments, one or more pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention and one or more other pharmaceutical agents are prepared together in a single formulation. In certain embodiments, one or more pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention and one or more other pharmaceutical agents are prepared separately.

 In certain embodiments, pharmaceutical agents that may be co-administered with a pharmaceutical composition of the present invention include anticoagulant or antiplatelet agents. In certain embodiments, pharmaceutical agents that may be co-administered with a pharmaceutical composition of the present invention include, but are not limited to aspirin, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, ticlopidine, warfarin (and related coumarins), heparin, direct thrombin inhibitors (such as lepirudin, bivalirudin), apixaban, lovenox, and small molecular compounds that interfere directly with the enzymatic action of particular coagulation factors (e.g. rivaroxaban, which interferes with Factor Xa). In certain embodiments, the anticoagulant or antiplatelet agent is administered prior to administration of a pharmaceutical composition of the present invention. In certain embodiments, the anticoagulant or antiplatelet agent is administered following administration of a pharmaceutical composition of the present invention. In certain embodiments the anticoagulant or antiplatelet agent is administered at the same time as a pharmaceutical composition of the present invention. In certain embodiments the dose of a co-administered anticoagulant or antiplatelet agent is the same as the dose that would be administered if the anticoagulant or antiplatelet agent was administered alone. In certain embodiments the dose of a co-administered anticoagulant or antiplatelet agent is lower than the dose that would be administered if the anticoagulant or antiplatelet agent was administered alone. In certain embodiments the dose of a co-administered anticoagulant or antiplatelet agent is greater than the dose that would be administered if the anticoagulant or antiplatelet agent was administered alone.

 In certain embodiments, the co-administration of a second compound enhances the anticoagulant effect of a first compound, such that co-administration of the compounds results in an anticoagulant effect that is greater than the effect of administering the first compound alone. In other embodiments, the co-administration results in anticoagulant effects that are additive of the effects of the compounds when administered alone. In certain embodiments, the co-administration results in anticoagulant effects that are supra-additive of the effects of the compounds when administered alone. In certain embodiments, the first compound is an antisense compound. In certain embodiments, the second compound is an antisense compound.

 In certain embodiments, an antidote is administered anytime after the administration of a Factor 7 specific inhibitor. In certain embodiments, an antidote is administered anytime after the administration of an antisense oligonucleotide targeting Factor 7. In certain embodiments, the antidote is administered minutes, hours, days, weeks, or months after the administration of an antisense compound targeting Factor 7. In certain embodiments, the antidote is a complementary (e.g. a sense strand) to the antisense compound targeting Factor 7. In certain embodiments, the antidote is a Factor 7 or Factor 7a protein. In certain embodiments, the Factor 7 or Factor 7a, protein is a human Factor 7 or human Factor 7a protein.

 EXAMPLES

 Non-Limiting Disclosure and Incorporation by Reference

 While certain compounds, compositions and methods described herein have been described with specificity in accordance with certain embodiments, the following examples serve only to illustrate the compounds described herein and are not intended to limit the same. Each of the references recited in the present application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

 Example 1

 Antisense Inhibition of Human Factor 7 mRNA in HepB3 Cells

 Antisense oligonucleotides targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid were tested for their effects on Factor 7 mRNA in vitro. Cultured HepB3 cells at a density of 4,000 cells per well were transfected using lipofectin reagent with 50 nM antisense oligonucleotide. After a treatment period of approximately 24 hours, RNA was isolated from the cells and Factor 7 mRNA levels were measured by real-time RT-PCR, as described herein. Factor 7 mRNA levels were adjusted according to total RNA content as measured by RIBOGREEN®. Results are presented as percent inhibition of Factor 7, relative to untreated control cells.

 The chimeric antisense oligonucleotides in Table 1 were designed as 5-10-5 MOE gapmers. The gapmers are 20 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of ten 2′-deoxynucleotides and is flanked on both sides (in the 5′ and 3′ directions) by wings comprising five nucleotides each. Each nucleotide in the 5′ wing segment and each nucleotide in the 3′ wing segment has a 2′-MOE modification. The internucleoside linkages throughout each gapmer are phosphorothioate (P═S) linkages. All cytidine residues throughout each gapmer are 5-methylcytidines. Each gapmer listed in Table 1 is targeted to human gene sequences, SEQ ID NO: 1 (nucleotides 1255000 to 1273000 of GENBANK Accession No. NT — 027140.6), SEQ ID NO: 2 (GENBANK Accession No. NM — 019616.2), or SEQ ID NO: 3 (GENBANK Accession No. DB184141.1). “Human Target start site” indicates the 5′-most nucleotide to which the gapmer is targeted in the specified human gene sequence. “Human Target stop site” indicates the 3′-most nucleotide to which the gapmer is targeted in the specified human gene sequence.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 1 

 
 Inhibition of human Factor 7 mRNA levels by chimeric 

 
 antisense oligonucleotides having 5-10-5 MOE wings 

 
 and deoxy gap targeted to SEQ ID NO: 1, 

 
 SEQ ID NO: 2, and SEQ ID NO: 3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Target 
 Target 
 Target 

 
 Oligo 
 SEQ ID 
 Start 
 Stop 
 
 % 
 SEQ ID 

 
 ID 
 NO 
 Site 
 Site 
 Sequence (5′ to 3′) 
 Inhibition 
 NO 

 
 
 
 
 
 403090 
 1 
 14017 
 14036 
 AGTCCTGGGTCATCAGCCGG 
 69 
 4 

 
 403093 
 1 
 14231 
 14250 
 GAGACCCTGGTGTACACCCC 
 75 
 5 

 
 407594 
 1 
 1208 
 1227 
 CCTGCAGCCAGGCAGCCCTG 
 87 
 6 

 
 407595 
 1 
 2169 
 2188 
 TCCTGAGGCCTTAGCGACCC 
 71 
 7 

 
 407596 
 1 
 2206 
 2225 
 GAGGCCCCGGCTTCCACGGC 
 61 
 8 

 
 407597 
 1 
 1114 
 1133 
 TGTTGACATTCCCCATGGGA 
 39 
 9 

 
 407598 
 1 
 1147 
 1166 
 CCATGATGAAATCTCTGCAG 
 72 
 10 

 
 407599 
 1 
 1156 
 1175 
 CCTGGGAGACCATGATGAAA 
 73 
 11 

 
 407600 
 1 
 1190 
 1209 
 TGAAGCCCAAGCAGAAGGCA 
 61 
 12 

 
 407601 
 1 
 1196 
 1215 
 CAGCCCTGAAGCCCAAGCAG 
 52 
 13 

 
 407602 
 1 
 1207 
 1226 
 CTGCAGCCAGGCAGCCCTGA 
 81 
 14 

 
 407603 
 1 
 9073 
 9092 
 TAAGAAATCCAGAACAGCTT 
 54 
 15 

 
 407605 
 1 
 9169 
 9188 
 TTGAGGCACACTGGTCCCCA 
 58 
 16 

 
 407606 
 1 
 9204 
 9223 
 CTGGTCCTTGCAGGAGCCCC 
 89 
 17 

 
 407607 
 1 
 9209 
 9228 
 TGGAGCTGGTCCTTGCAGGA 
 76 
 18 

 
 407608 
 1 
 9217 
 9236 
 TATAGGACTGGAGCTGGTCC 
 13 
 19 

 
 407609 
 1 
 9226 
 9245 
 AGAAGCAGATATAGGACTGG 
 35 
 20 

 
 407610 
 1 
 9234 
 9253 
 AGGGAGGCAGAAGCAGATAT 
 31 
 21 

 
 407611 
 1 
 9259 
 9278 
 TCTCACAGTTCCGGCCCTCG 
 82 
 22 

 
 407612 
 1 
 10982 
 11001 
 AGATCAGCTGGTCATCCTTG 
 82 
 23 

 
 407613 
 1 
 11010 
 11029 
 TGCTCACAGCCGCCGTTCTC 
 66 
 24 

 
 407614 
 1 
 11018 
 11037 
 TGCAGTACTGCTCACAGCCG 
 78 
 25 

 
 407615 
 1 
 11088 
 11107 
 GACACCCCGTCTGCCAGCAG 
 65 
 26 

 
 407616 
 1 
 11093 
 11112 
 TGCAGGACACCCCGTCTGCC 
 64 
 27 

 
 407617 
 1 
 12084 
 12103 
 TCCACATGGATATTCAACTG 
 67 
 28 

 
 407618 
 1 
 12091 
 12110 
 GTATTTTTCCACATGGATAT 
 42 
 29 

 
 407619 
 1 
 12098 
 12117 
 AGAATAGGTATTTTTCCACA 
 64 
 30 

 
 407623 
 1 
 12795 
 12814 
 TCCATTCACCAACAACAGGA 
 69 
 31 

 
 407624 
 1 
 12842 
 12861 
 GAGACCACCCAGATGGTGTT 
 73 
 32 

 
 407625 
 1 
 12863 
 12882 
 TTGTCGAAACAGTGGGCCGC 
 100 
 33 

 
 407626 
 1 
 12871 
 12890 
 TCTTGATTTTGTCGAAACAG 
 82 
 34 

 
 407628 
 1 
 13777 
 13796 
 TGATGACCTGCGCCACCCGC 
 38 
 35 

 
 407629 
 1 
 13856 
 13875 
 TCAGTGAGGACCACGGGCTG 
 34 
 36 

 
 407630 
 1 
 13863 
 13882 
 CACATGGTCAGTGAGGACCA 
 29 
 37 

 
 407631 
 1 
 13869 
 13888 
 GGGCACCACATGGTCAGTGA 
 66 
 38 

 
 407632 
 1 
 13888 
 13907 
 TCCGTTCGGGCAGGCAGAGG 
 46 
 39 

 
 407633 
 1 
 14023 
 14042 
 GCAGGCAGTCCTGGGTCATC 
 71 
 40 

 
 407634 
 1 
 14032 
 14051 
 GTGACTGCTGCAGGCAGTCC 
 24 
 41 

 
 407635 
 1 
 14186 
 14205 
 TGGCCCCAGCTGACGATGCC 
 64 
 42 

 
 407636 
 1 
 14193 
 14212 
 GCAGCCCTGGCCCCAGCTGA 
 75 
 43 

 
 407637 
 1 
 14238 
 14257 
 GTACTGGGAGACCCTGGTGT 
 71 
 44 

 
 407638 
 1 
 14248 
 14267 
 GCCACTCGATGTACTGGGAG 
 0 
 45 

 
 407639 
 1 
 14254 
 14273 
 TTTGCAGCCACTCGATGTAC 
 76 
 46 

 
 407640 
 1 
 14263 
 14282 
 GCATGAGCTTTTGCAGCCAC 
 79 
 47 

 
 407641 
 1 
 14707 
 14726 
 CCTGAGGCCAGCAGATCACG 
 94 
 48 

 
 407642 
 1 
 14713 
 14732 
 CAGCAGCCTGAGGCCAGCAG 
 78 
 49 

 
 407643 
 1 
 15098 
 15117 
 CACACATGGAGTCAGCATCG 
 84 
 50 

 
 407644 
 1 
 15106 
 15125 
 GAGGACAGCACACATGGAGT 
 66 
 51 

 
 407645 
 1 
 15128 
 15147 
 GAGAGCTAAACAACCGCCTT 
 65 
 52 

 
 407646 
 1 
 15185 
 15204 
 GGTGATGCTTCTGAATTGTC 
 81 
 53 

 
 407647 
 1 
 15300 
 15319 
 GCAGCCGTTTATTGTGAAGC 
 83 
 54 

 
 407648 
 1 
 15388 
 15407 
 GCATCTCAGAGGATGAGCAC 
 8 
 55 

 
 407649 
 1 
 15430 
 15449 
 GAGGGTTCATTTCAGTGATG 
 24 
 56 

 
 407650 
 1 
 15436 
 15455 
 CCATGTGAGGGTTCATTTCA 
 39 
 57 

 
 407651 
 1 
 15482 
 15501 
 AGCCTCAAACATCTATCAAA 
 32 
 58 

 
 407652 
 1 
 15492 
 15511 
 TGGGAGCTACAGCCTCAAAC 
 30 
 59 

 
 407653 
 1 
 15546 
 15565 
 AATATCATTGACAAGGGCTG 
 21 
 60 

 
 407654 
 1 
 15630 
 15649 
 CCACTGCAGCCAGGGCCTGG 
 34 
 61 

 
 407655 
 1 
 15653 
 15672 
 AGAGTGCAGCTTGCCAGGTC 
 28 
 62 

 
 407656 
 1 
 15658 
 15677 
 CAGCAAGAGTGCAGCTTGCC 
 43 
 63 

 
 407657 
 1 
 15664 
 15683 
 GGGACTCAGCAAGAGTGCAG 
 26 
 64 

 
 407658 
 1 
 15749 
 15768 
 GCTTGCCGGAGTCTGAGTGG 
 16 
 65 

 
 407659 
 1 
 15778 
 15797 
 GATGGCATCGAGTCCACTCT 
 55 
 66 

 
 407660 
 1 
 15905 
 15924 
 GCTCTGAAGTAGATGATGCC 
 16 
 67 

 
 407661 
 1 
 15963 
 15982 
 TTTACAAGAGCAGGGTGCCT 
 47 
 68 

 
 407663 
 1 
 9112 
 9131 
 TTGCAGGCAGGACTGGTGGT 
 44 
 69 

 
 407664 
 1 
 5219 
 5238 
 CAGGGCGAGGCAACCCCGTG 
 70 
 70 

 
 407665 
 1 
 6001 
 6020 
 GTTACGAAGACTGGGAAATG 
 29 
 71 

 
 407666 
 1 
 8877 
 8896 
 TCCCCAGGACATCTGGAACT 
 52 
 72 

 
 407667 
 1 
 10897 
 10916 
 GTGGCCATGCCCTGGGTCAG 
 71 
 73 

 
 407668 
 1 
 12187 
 12206 
 GAAGCCTTACCTGCCATGGA 
 54 
 74 

 
 407669 
 1 
 12387 
 12406 
 TAGACCCTCAGTGAGTGTCG 
 57 
 75 

 
 407886 
 1 
 1173 
 1192 
 GCAGAGGAGCCTGAGGGCCT 
 72 
 76 

 
 407887 
 1 
 1201 
 1220 
 CCAGGCAGCCCTGAAGCCCA 
 78 
 77 

 
 407890 
 1 
 6080 
 6099 
 CAGGGAGCCCGGCCGCAGCT 
 60 
 78 

 
 407891 
 1 
 9176 
 9195 
 CATGGACTTGAGGCACACTG 
 66 
 79 

 
 407892 
 1 
 9187 
 9206 
 CCCCATTCTGGCATGGACTT 
 68 
 80 

 
 407893 
 1 
 9242 
 9261 
 TCGAAGGCAGGGAGGCAGAA 
 33 
 81 

 
 407894 
 1 
 9252 
 9271 
 GTTCCGGCCCTCGAAGGCAG 
 77 
 82 

 
 407895 
 1 
 10987 
 11006 
 CACACAGATCAGCTGGTCAT 
 72 
 83 

 
 407896 
 1 
 11029 
 11048 
 CGTGTGGTCACTGCAGTACT 
 73 
 84 

 
 407897 
 1 
 11039 
 11058 
 GCTTGGTGCCCGTGTGGTCA 
 77 
 85 

 
 407898 
 1 
 11075 
 11094 
 CCAGCAGAGAGTACCCCTCG 
 49 
 86 

 
 407899 
 1 
 11098 
 11117 
 GGGTGTGCAGGACACCCCGT 
 42 
 87 

 
 407900 
 1 
 12141 
 12160 
 CCCCACAATTCGGCCTTGGG 
 91 
 88 

 
 407901 
 1 
 12829 
 12848 
 TGGTGTTGATCAGGGTCCCC 
 89 
 89 

 
 407902 
 1 
 12837 
 12856 
 CACCCAGATGGTGTTGATCA 
 86 
 90 

 
 407903 
 1 
 12847 
 12866 
 CCGCGGAGACCACCCAGATG 
 98 
 91 

 
 407904 
 1 
 12858 
 12877 
 GAAACAGTGGGCCGCGGAGA 
 83 
 92 

 
 407905 
 1 
 12876 
 12895 
 CCAGTTCTTGATTTTGTCGA 
 40 
 93 

 
 407906 
 1 
 13847 
 13866 
 ACCACGGGCTGGTGCAGGCG 
 4 
 94 

 
 407907 
 1 
 13928 
 13947 
 AATGAGAAGCGCACGAAGGC 
 35 
 95 

 
 407908 
 1 
 13943 
 13962 
 CCCCAGCCGCTGACCAATGA 
 47 
 96 

 
 407909 
 1 
 14093 
 14112 
 CCATCCGAGTAGCCGGCACA 
 77 
 97 

 
 407910 
 1 
 14104 
 14123 
 AGTCCTTGCTGCCATCCGAG 
 86 
 98 

 
 407911 
 1 
 14115 
 14134 
 CCCCTTGCAGGAGTCCTTGC 
 74 
 99 

 
 407912 
 1 
 14149 
 14168 
 CCCGGTAGTGGGTGGCATGT 
 46 
 100 

 
 407913 
 1 
 14172 
 14191 
 GATGCCCGTCAGGTACCACG 
 74 
 101 

 
 407914 
 1 
 14181 
 14200 
 CCAGCTGACGATGCCCGTCA 
 82 
 102 

 
 407915 
 1 
 14198 
 14217 
 GTTGCGCAGCCCTGGCCCCA 
 83 
 103 

 
 407916 
 1 
 14208 
 14227 
 GTGGCCCACGGTTGCGCAGC 
 53 
 104 

 
 407917 
 1 
 14218 
 14237 
 ACACCCCAAAGTGGCCCACG 
 70 
 105 

 
 407918 
 1 
 14226 
 14245 
 CCTGGTGTACACCCCAAAGT 
 72 
 106 

 
 407919 
 1 
 14243 
 14262 
 TCGATGTACTGGGAGACCCT 
 84 
 107 

 
 407920 
 1 
 14268 
 14287 
 TGAGCGCATGAGCTTTTGCA 
 65 
 108 

 
 407921 
 1 
 14331 
 14350 
 CCACAGGCCAGGGCTGCTGG 
 65 
 109 

 
 407922 
 1 
 14354 
 14373 
 TCGACGCAGCCTTGGCTTTC 
 82 
 110 

 
 407923 
 1 
 14363 
 14382 
 CAGGACAGTTCGACGCAGCC 
 76 
 111 

 
 407924 
 1 
 14373 
 14392 
 GATTTGGTGCCAGGACAGTT 
 68 
 112 

 
 407925 
 1 
 14383 
 14402 
 GAATATATGGGATTTGGTGC 
 64 
 113 

 
 407926 
 1 
 14633 
 14652 
 CCAGGACAACCTTGGCACTC 
 79 
 114 

 
 407927 
 1 
 14664 
 14683 
 AGGTAAGGAGGCTCAGCTGG 
 55 
 115 

 
 407928 
 1 
 14677 
 14696 
 CTTGGCTGAAGGGAGGTAAG 
 55 
 116 

 
 407929 
 1 
 14719 
 14738 
 GCAGAGCAGCAGCCTGAGGC 
 53 
 117 

 
 407930 
 1 
 14727 
 14746 
 CAATGAAGGCAGAGCAGCAG 
 70 
 118 

 
 407931 
 1 
 15111 
 15130 
 CTTCAGAGGACAGCACACAT 
 56 
 119 

 
 407932 
 1 
 15141 
 15160 
 GAACCAGAAAAGTGAGAGCT 
 55 
 120 

 
 407933 
 1 
 15154 
 15173 
 TGATAATGGATAAGAACCAG 
 58 
 121 

 
 407934 
 1 
 15166 
 15185 
 CTGAAGTGAAGATGATAATG 
 45 
 122 

 
 407935 
 1 
 15191 
 15210 
 ATGCATGGTGATGCTTCTGA 
 94 
 123 

 
 407936 
 1 
 15204 
 15223 
 GGCATTCGCCACCATGCATG 
 91 
 124 

 
 407937 
 1 
 15237 
 15256 
 GAAGGGAGAAATACATTTGG 
 59 
 125 

 
 407938 
 1 
 15245 
 15264 
 CACCCAGCGAAGGGAGAAAT 
 60 
 126 

 
 407939 
 1 
 15255 
 15274 
 TGCAGCCCGGCACCCAGCGA 
 93 
 127 

 
 407940 
 1 
 15288 
 15307 
 TGTGAAGCTGGGAAGCAGGT 
 62 
 128 

 
 407941 
 1 
 15305 
 15324 
 GAGACGCAGCCGTTTATTGT 
 65 
 129 

 
 407942 
 1 
 15320 
 15339 
 CACAGGTGTGCGGAGGAGAC 
 41 
 130 

 
 407943 
 1 
 15328 
 15347 
 GCAGGCACCACAGGTGTGCG 
 34 
 131 

 
 407944 
 1 
 15338 
 15357 
 CCAGTGGGTGGCAGGCACCA 
 59 
 132 

 
 407945 
 1 
 15351 
 15370 
 AATCATGGGCAACCCAGTGG 
 56 
 133 

 
 407946 
 1 
 15361 
 15380 
 TCCAAAAATGAATCATGGGC 
 5 
 134 

 
 407947 
 1 
 15393 
 15412 
 AAAGAGCATCTCAGAGGATG 
 26 
 135 

 
 407948 
 1 
 15403 
 15422 
 TTGTGAAAGAAAAGAGCATC 
 8 
 136 

 
 407949 
 1 
 15418 
 15437 
 CAGTGATGTTGAAAATTGTG 
 9 
 137 

 
 407950 
 1 
 15441 
 15460 
 AGCTTCCATGTGAGGGTTCA 
 58 
 138 

 
 407951 
 1 
 15464 
 15483 
 AACAGCTTTTGTTTTTAAAA 
 0 
 139 

 
 407952 
 1 
 15498 
 15517 
 GGATCCTGGGAGCTACAGCC 
 41 
 140 

 
 407953 
 1 
 15513 
 15532 
 ACATCCAATTCCACAGGATC 
 20 
 141 

 
 407954 
 1 
 15523 
 15542 
 CAGGGAGAGAACATCCAATT 
 39 
 142 

 
 407955 
 1 
 15551 
 15570 
 TGTGAAATATCATTGACAAG 
 3 
 143 

 
 407956 
 1 
 15609 
 15628 
 AACTTGCATTTAGTGATGCG 
 19 
 144 

 
 407957 
 1 
 15617 
 15636 
 GGCCTGGGAACTTGCATTTA 
 52 
 145 

 
 407958 
 1 
 15754 
 15773 
 GCCGTGCTTGCCGGAGTCTG 
 58 
 146 

 
 407959 
 1 
 15783 
 15802 
 GCAGGGATGGCATCGAGTCC 
 0 
 147 

 
 407960 
 1 
 15800 
 15819 
 GTGCCCAGGACGGCCCTGCA 
 53 
 148 

 
 407961 
 1 
 15899 
 15918 
 AAGTAGATGATGCCTGAGTG 
 34 
 149 

 
 407962 
 1 
 15944 
 15963 
 TTGGAAGCAGCCCACGGCTG 
 41 
 150 

 
 407963 
 1 
 15957 
 15976 
 AGAGCAGGGTGCCTTGGAAG 
 33 
 151 

 
 407604 
 2 
 297 
 316 
 CACACTGGTCCCCATCACTG 
 34 
 152 

 
 407620 
 2 
 652 
 671 
 AGGACCTGCCATGGACACTC 
 79 
 153 

 
 407621 
 2 
 657 
 676 
 ACAACAGGACCTGCCATGGA 
 62 
 154 

 
 407622 
 2 
 663 
 682 
 TCACCAACAACAGGACCTGC 
 55 
 155 

 
 407627 
 2 
 773 
 792 
 GCCCAGCACCGCGATCAGGT 
 79 
 156 

 
 407888 
 2 
 102 
 121 
 CGAAGACTGCAGCCAGGCAG 
 34 
 157 

 
 407889 
 2 
 112 
 131 
 TCCTGGGTTACGAAGACTGC 
 54 
 158 

 
 407662 
 3 
 50 
 69 
 TCCTGCAGCCAGGCAGCCCT 
 86 
 159 

 Certain gapmers from Table 1 are 100% homologous to the rhesus monkey genomic sequence (nucleotides 691000 to 706000 of GENBANK Accession No. NW — 00104507.1; incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO: 162) or the rhesus monkey mRNA sequence (GENKBANK Accession No. 3360 — 061_B; incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO: 163). Shown in Table 2 are the chimeric antisense oligonucleotides from Table 1, which are homologous with rhesus monkey. Gapmers are arranged by human target start site.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 2 

 
 Human/rhesus monkey cross-reactive chimeric 

 
 antisense oligonucleotides having 5-10-5 MOE 

 
 wings and deoxy gap 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Rhesus 
 Rhesus 

 
 
 Human 
 Human 
 Human 
 
 Rhesus 
 monkey 
 monkey 

 
 
 Target 
 Target 
 Target 
 
 Target 
 Target 
 Target 
 SEQ 

 
 ISIS 
 SEQ 
 Start 
 Stop 
 
 SEQ 
 Start 
 Stop 
 ID 

 
 No. 
 ID NO 
 Site 
 Site 
 Sequence (5′ to 3′) 
 ID No. 
 Site 
 Site 
 No. 

 
 
 
 
 
 407597 
 1 
 1114 
 1133 
 TGTTGACATTCCCCATGGGA 
 160 
 537 
 556 
 9 

 
 407598 
 1 
 1147 
 1166 
 CCATGATGAAATCTCTGCAG 
 160 
 570 
 589 
 10 

 
 407599 
 1 
 1156 
 1175 
 CCTGGGAGACCATGATGAAA 
 160 
 579 
 598 
 11 

 
 407886 
 1 
 1173 
 1192 
 GCAGAGGAGCCTGAGGGCCT 
 160 
 596 
 615 
 76 

 
 407600 
 1 
 1190 
 1209 
 TGAAGCCCAAGCAGAAGGCA 
 160 
 613 
 632 
 12 

 
 407601 
 1 
 1196 
 1215 
 CAGCCCTGAAGCCCAAGCAG 
 160 
 619 
 638 
 13 

 
 407887 
 1 
 1201 
 1220 
 CCAGGCAGCCCTGAAGCCCA 
 160 
 624 
 643 
 77 

 
 407602 
 1 
 1207 
 1226 
 CTGCAGCCAGGCAGCCCTGA 
 160 
 630 
 649 
 14 

 
 407594 
 1 
 1208 
 1227 
 CCTGCAGCCAGGCAGCCCTG 
 160 
 631 
 650 
 6 

 
 407595 
 1 
 2169 
 2188 
 TCCTGAGGCCTTAGCGACCC 
 160 
 1628 
 1647 
 7 

 
 407596 
 1 
 2206 
 2225 
 GAGGCCCCGGCTTCCACGGC 
 160 
 1666 
 1685 
 8 

 
 407664 
 1 
 5219 
 5238 
 CAGGGCGAGGCAACCCCGTG 
 160 
 3001 
 3020 
 70 

 
 407666 
 1 
 8877 
 8896 
 TCCCCAGGACATCTGGAACT 
 160 
 6444 
 6463 
 72 

 
 407603 
 1 
 9073 
 9092 
 TAAGAAATCCAGAACAGCTT 
 160 
 6637 
 6656 
 15 

 
 407663 
 1 
 9112 
 9131 
 TTGCAGGCAGGACTGGTGGT 
 160 
 6676 
 6695 
 69 

 
 407605 
 1 
 9169 
 9188 
 TTGAGGCACACTGGTCCCCA 
 160 
 6736 
 6755 
 16 

 
 407891 
 1 
 9176 
 9195 
 CATGGACTTGAGGCACACTG 
 160 
 6743 
 6762 
 79 

 
 407892 
 1 
 9187 
 9206 
 CCCCATTCTGGCATGGACTT 
 160 
 6754 
 6773 
 80 

 
 407606 
 1 
 9204 
 9223 
 CTGGTCCTTGCAGGAGCCCC 
 160 
 6771 
 6790 
 17 

 
 407607 
 1 
 9209 
 9228 
 TGGAGCTGGTCCTTGCAGGA 
 160 
 6776 
 6795 
 18 

 
 407608 
 1 
 9217 
 9236 
 TATAGGACTGGAGCTGGTCC 
 160 
 6784 
 6803 
 19 

 
 407609 
 1 
 9226 
 9245 
 AGAAGCAGATATAGGACTGG 
 160 
 6793 
 6812 
 20 

 
 407610 
 1 
 9234 
 9253 
 AGGGAGGCAGAAGCAGATAT 
 160 
 6801 
 6820 
 21 

 
 407893 
 1 
 9242 
 9261 
 TCGAAGGCAGGGAGGCAGAA 
 160 
 6809 
 6828 
 81 

 
 407894 
 1 
 9252 
 9271 
 GTTCCGGCCCTCGAAGGCAG 
 160 
 6819 
 6838 
 82 

 
 407611 
 1 
 9259 
 9278 
 TCTCACAGTTCCGGCCCTCG 
 160 
 6826 
 6845 
 22 

 
 407612 
 1 
 10982 
 11001 
 AGATCAGCTGGTCATCCTTG 
 160 
 8679 
 8698 
 23 

 
 407895 
 1 
 10987 
 11006 
 CACACAGATCAGCTGGTCAT 
 160 
 8684 
 8703 
 83 

 
 407613 
 1 
 11010 
 11029 
 TGCTCACAGCCGCCGTTCTC 
 160 
 8707 
 8726 
 24 

 
 407614 
 1 
 11018 
 11037 
 TGCAGTACTGCTCACAGCCG 
 160 
 8715 
 8734 
 25 

 
 407896 
 1 
 11029 
 11048 
 CGTGTGGTCACTGCAGTACT 
 160 
 8726 
 8745 
 84 

 
 407897 
 1 
 11039 
 11058 
 GCTTGGTGCCCGTGTGGTCA 
 160 
 8736 
 8755 
 85 

 
 407898 
 1 
 11075 
 11094 
 CCAGCAGAGAGTACCCCTCG 
 160 
 8772 
 8791 
 86 

 
 407615 
 1 
 11088 
 11107 
 GACACCCCGTCTGCCAGCAG 
 160 
 8785 
 8804 
 26 

 
 407616 
 1 
 11093 
 11112 
 TGCAGGACACCCCGTCTGCC 
 160 
 8790 
 8809 
 27 

 
 407899 
 1 
 11098 
 11117 
 GGGTGTGCAGGACACCCCGT 
 160 
 8795 
 8814 
 158 

 
 407617 
 1 
 12084 
 12103 
 TCCACATGGATATTCAACTG 
 160 
 9808 
 9827 
 28 

 
 407618 
 1 
 12091 
 12110 
 GTATTTTTCCACATGGATAT 
 160 
 9815 
 9834 
 29 

 
 407619 
 1 
 12098 
 12117 
 AGAATAGGTATTTTTCCACA 
 160 
 9822 
 9841 
 30 

 
 407900 
 1 
 12141 
 12160 
 CCCCACAATTCGGCCTTGGG 
 160 
 9865 
 9884 
 88 

 
 407668 
 1 
 12187 
 12206 
 GAAGCCTTACCTGCCATGGA 
 160 
 9911 
 9930 
 74 

 
 407669 
 1 
 12387 
 12406 
 TAGACCCTCAGTGAGTGTCG 
 160 
 10116 
 10135 
 75 

 
 407623 
 1 
 12795 
 12814 
 TCCATTCACCAACAACAGGA 
 160 
 10524 
 10543 
 31 

 
 407901 
 1 
 12829 
 12848 
 TGGTGTTGATCAGGGTCCCC 
 160 
 10558 
 10577 
 89 

 
 407902 
 1 
 12837 
 12856 
 CACCCAGATGGTGTTGATCA 
 160 
 10566 
 10585 
 90 

 
 407624 
 1 
 12842 
 12861 
 GAGACCACCCAGATGGTGTT 
 160 
 10571 
 10590 
 32 

 
 407903 
 1 
 12847 
 12866 
 CCGCGGAGACCACCCAGATG 
 160 
 10576 
 10595 
 91 

 
 407904 
 1 
 12858 
 12877 
 GAAACAGTGGGCCGCGGAGA 
 160 
 10587 
 10606 
 92 

 
 407625 
 1 
 12863 
 12882 
 TTGTCGAAACAGTGGGCCGC 
 160 
 10592 
 10611 
 33 

 
 407626 
 1 
 12871 
 12890 
 TCTTGATTTTGTCGAAACAG 
 160 
 10600 
 10619 
 34 

 
 407905 
 1 
 12876 
 12895 
 CCAGTTCTTGATTTTGTCGA 
 160 
 10605 
 10624 
 93 

 
 407628 
 1 
 13777 
 13796 
 TGATGACCTGCGCCACCCGC 
 160 
 11499 
 11518 
 35 

 
 407906 
 1 
 13847 
 13866 
 ACCACGGGCTGGTGCAGGCG 
 160 
 11569 
 11588 
 94 

 
 407629 
 1 
 13856 
 13875 
 TCAGTGAGGACCACGGGCTG 
 160 
 11578 
 11597 
 36 

 
 407630 
 1 
 13863 
 13882 
 CACATGGTCAGTGAGGACCA 
 160 
 11585 
 11604 
 37 

 
 407631 
 1 
 13869 
 13888 
 GGGCACCACATGGTCAGTGA 
 160 
 11591 
 11610 
 38 

 
 407632 
 1 
 13888 
 13907 
 TCCGTTCGGGCAGGCAGAGG 
 160 
 11610 
 11629 
 39 

 
 407907 
 1 
 13928 
 13947 
 AATGAGAAGCGCACGAAGGC 
 160 
 11650 
 11669 
 95 

 
 407908 
 1 
 13943 
 13962 
 CCCCAGCCGCTGACCAATGA 
 160 
 11665 
 11684 
 96 

 
 403090 
 1 
 14017 
 14036 
 AGTCCTGGGTCATCAGCCGG 
 160 
 11739 
 11758 
 4 

 
 407633 
 1 
 14023 
 14042 
 GCAGGCAGTCCTGGGTCATC 
 160 
 11745 
 11764 
 40 

 
 407634 
 1 
 14032 
 14051 
 GTGACTGCTGCAGGCAGTCC 
 160 
 11754 
 11773 
 41 

 
 407909 
 1 
 14093 
 14112 
 CCATCCGAGTAGCCGGCACA 
 160 
 11815 
 11834 
 97 

 
 407910 
 1 
 14104 
 14123 
 AGTCCTTGCTGCCATCCGAG 
 160 
 11826 
 11845 
 98 

 
 407911 
 1 
 14115 
 14134 
 CCCCTTGCAGGAGTCCTTGC 
 160 
 11837 
 11856 
 99 

 
 407912 
 1 
 14149 
 14168 
 CCCGGTAGTGGGTGGCATGT 
 160 
 11871 
 11890 
 100 

 
 407913 
 1 
 14172 
 14191 
 GATGCCCGTCAGGTACCACG 
 160 
 11894 
 11913 
 101 

 
 407914 
 1 
 14181 
 14200 
 CCAGCTGACGATGCCCGTCA 
 160 
 11903 
 11922 
 102 

 
 407635 
 1 
 14186 
 14205 
 TGGCCCCAGCTGACGATGCC 
 160 
 11908 
 11927 
 42 

 
 407636 
 1 
 14193 
 14212 
 GCAGCCCTGGCCCCAGCTGA 
 160 
 11915 
 11934 
 43 

 
 407915 
 1 
 14198 
 14217 
 GTTGCGCAGCCCTGGCCCCA 
 160 
 11920 
 11939 
 103 

 
 407916 
 1 
 14208 
 14227 
 GTGGCCCACGGTTGCGCAGC 
 160 
 11930 
 11949 
 104 

 
 407917 
 1 
 14218 
 14237 
 ACACCCCAAAGTGGCCCACG 
 160 
 11940 
 11959 
 105 

 
 407918 
 1 
 14226 
 14245 
 CCTGGTGTACACCCCAAAGT 
 160 
 11948 
 11967 
 106 

 
 403093 
 1 
 14231 
 14250 
 GAGACCCTGGTGTACACCCC 
 160 
 11953 
 11972 
 5 

 
 407637 
 1 
 14238 
 14257 
 GTACTGGGAGACCCTGGTGT 
 160 
 11960 
 11979 
 44 

 
 407919 
 1 
 14243 
 14262 
 TCGATGTACTGGGAGACCCT 
 160 
 11965 
 11984 
 107 

 
 407638 
 1 
 14248 
 14267 
 GCCACTCGATGTACTGGGAG 
 160 
 11970 
 11989 
 45 

 
 407639 
 1 
 14254 
 14273 
 TTTGCAGCCACTCGATGTAC 
 160 
 11976 
 11995 
 46 

 
 407640 
 1 
 14263 
 14282 
 GCATGAGCTTTTGCAGCCAC 
 160 
 11985 
 12004 
 47 

 
 407920 
 1 
 14268 
 14287 
 TGAGCGCATGAGCTTTTGCA 
 160 
 11990 
 12009 
 108 

 
 407922 
 1 
 14354 
 14373 
 TCGACGCAGCCTTGGCTTTC 
 160 
 12076 
 12095 
 110 

 
 407923 
 1 
 14363 
 14382 
 CAGGACAGTTCGACGCAGCC 
 160 
 12085 
 12104 
 111 

 
 407924 
 1 
 14373 
 14392 
 GATTTGGTGCCAGGACAGTT 
 160 
 12095 
 12114 
 112 

 
 407925 
 1 
 14383 
 14402 
 GAATATATGGGATTTGGTGC 
 160 
 12105 
 12124 
 113 

 
 407927 
 1 
 14664 
 14683 
 AGGTAAGGAGGCTCAGCTGG 
 160 
 12384 
 12403 
 115 

 
 407928 
 1 
 14677 
 14696 
 CTTGGCTGAAGGGAGGTAAG 
 160 
 12397 
 12416 
 116 

 
 407641 
 1 
 14707 
 14726 
 CCTGAGGCCAGCAGATCACG 
 160 
 12427 
 12446 
 48 

 
 407642 
 1 
 14713 
 14732 
 CAGCAGCCTGAGGCCAGCAG 
 160 
 12433 
 12452 
 49 

 
 407929 
 1 
 14719 
 14738 
 GCAGAGCAGCAGCCTGAGGC 
 160 
 12397 
 12416 
 117 

 
 407930 
 1 
 14727 
 14746 
 CAATGAAGGCAGAGCAGCAG 
 160 
 12447 
 12466 
 118 

 
 407643 
 1 
 15098 
 15117 
 CACACATGGAGTCAGCATCG 
 160 
 12815 
 12834 
 50 

 
 407644 
 1 
 15106 
 15125 
 GAGGACAGCACACATGGAGT 
 160 
 12823 
 12842 
 51 

 
 407931 
 1 
 15111 
 15130 
 CTTCAGAGGACAGCACACAT 
 160 
 12828 
 12847 
 119 

 
 407645 
 1 
 15128 
 15147 
 GAGAGCTAAACAACCGCCTT 
 160 
 12845 
 12864 
 52 

 
 407932 
 1 
 15141 
 15160 
 GAACCAGAAAAGTGAGAGCT 
 160 
 12858 
 12847 
 120 

 
 407933 
 1 
 15154 
 15173 
 TGATAATGGATAAGAACCAG 
 160 
 12871 
 12890 
 121 

 
 407934 
 1 
 15166 
 15185 
 CTGAAGTGAAGATGATAATG 
 160 
 12883 
 12902 
 122 

 
 407646 
 1 
 15185 
 15204 
 GGTGATGCTTCTGAATTGTC 
 160 
 12902 
 12921 
 53 

 
 407935 
 1 
 15191 
 15210 
 ATGCATGGTGATGCTTCTGA 
 160 
 12908 
 12927 
 123 

 
 407936 
 1 
 15204 
 15223 
 GGCATTCGCCACCATGCATG 
 160 
 12921 
 12940 
 124 

 
 407940 
 1 
 15288 
 15307 
 TGTGAAGCTGGGAAGCAGGT 
 160 
 12985 
 13004 
 128 

 
 407647 
 1 
 15300 
 15319 
 GCAGCCGTTTATTGTGAAGC 
 160 
 12997 
 13016 
 54 

 
 407941 
 1 
 15305 
 15324 
 GAGACGCAGCCGTTTATTGT 
 160 
 13002 
 13021 
 129 

 
 407942 
 1 
 15320 
 15339 
 CACAGGTGTGCGGAGGAGAC 
 160 
 13017 
 13036 
 130 

 
 407943 
 1 
 15328 
 15347 
 GCAGGCACCACAGGTGTGCG 
 160 
 13025 
 13044 
 131 

 
 407944 
 1 
 15338 
 15357 
 CCAGTGGGTGGCAGGCACCA 
 160 
 13035 
 13054 
 132 

 
 407648 
 1 
 15388 
 15407 
 GCATCTCAGAGGATGAGCAC 
 160 
 13085 
 13104 
 136 

 
 407947 
 1 
 15393 
 15412 
 AAAGAGCATCTCAGAGGATG 
 160 
 13090 
 13109 
 54 

 
 407948 
 1 
 15403 
 15422 
 TTGTGAAAGAAAAGAGCATC 
 160 
 13100 
 13119 
 55 

 
 407949 
 1 
 15418 
 15437 
 CAGTGATGTTGAAAATTGTG 
 160 
 13115 
 13134 
 57 

 
 407649 
 1 
 15430 
 15449 
 GAGGGTTCATTTCAGTGATG 
 160 
 13127 
 13146 
 56 

 
 407650 
 1 
 15436 
 15455 
 CCATGTGAGGGTTCATTTCA 
 160 
 13133 
 13152 
 57 

 
 407950 
 1 
 15441 
 15460 
 AGCTTCCATGTGAGGGTTCA 
 160 
 13138 
 13157 
 138 

 
 407951 
 1 
 15464 
 15483 
 AACAGCTTTTGTTTTTAAAA 
 160 
 13163 
 13182 
 139 

 
 407651 
 1 
 15482 
 15501 
 AGCCTCAAACATCTATCAAA 
 160 
 13181 
 13200 
 58 

 
 407652 
 1 
 15492 
 15511 
 TGGGAGCTACAGCCTCAAAC 
 160 
 13191 
 13210 
 59 

 
 407952 
 1 
 15498 
 15517 
 GGATCCTGGGAGCTACAGCC 
 160 
 13197 
 13216 
 140 

 
 407953 
 1 
 15513 
 15532 
 ACATCCAATTCCACAGGATC 
 160 
 13212 
 13231 
 141 

 
 407954 
 1 
 15523 
 15542 
 CAGGGAGAGAACATCCAATT 
 160 
 13222 
 13241 
 142 

 
 407653 
 1 
 15546 
 15565 
 AATATCATTGACAAGGGCTG 
 160 
 13245 
 13264 
 60 

 
 407955 
 1 
 15551 
 15570 
 TGTGAAATATCATTGACAAG 
 160 
 13250 
 13269 
 143 

 
 407957 
 1 
 15617 
 15636 
 GGCCTGGGAACTTGCATTTA 
 160 
 13312 
 13331 
 145 

 
 407654 
 1 
 15630 
 15649 
 CCACTGCAGCCAGGGCCTGG 
 160 
 13325 
 13344 
 61 

 
 407655 
 1 
 15653 
 15672 
 AGAGTGCAGCTTGCCAGGTC 
 160 
 13348 
 13367 
 62 

 
 407656 
 1 
 15658 
 15677 
 CAGCAAGAGTGCAGCTTGCC 
 160 
 13353 
 13372 
 63 

 
 407657 
 1 
 15664 
 15683 
 GGGACTCAGCAAGAGTGCAG 
 160 
 13359 
 13378 
 64 

 
 407658 
 1 
 15749 
 15768 
 GCTTGCCGGAGTCTGAGTGG 
 160 
 13444 
 13463 
 65 

 
 407958 
 1 
 15754 
 15773 
 GCCGTGCTTGCCGGAGTCTG 
 160 
 13449 
 13468 
 146 

 
 407659 
 1 
 15778 
 15797 
 GATGGCATCGAGTCCACTCT 
 160 
 13473 
 13492 
 66 

 
 407959 
 1 
 15783 
 15802 
 GCAGGGATGGCATCGAGTCC 
 160 
 13478 
 13497 
 147 

 
 407960 
 1 
 15800 
 15819 
 GTGCCCAGGACGGCCCTGCA 
 160 
 13495 
 13514 
 148 

 
 407961 
 1 
 15899 
 15918 
 AAGTAGATGATGCCTGAGTG 
 160 
 13564 
 13583 
 149 

 
 407660 
 1 
 15905 
 15924 
 GCTCTGAAGTAGATGATGCC 
 160 
 13570 
 13589 
 67 

 
 407962 
 1 
 15944 
 15963 
 TTGGAAGCAGCCCACGGCTG 
 160 
 13609 
 13628 
 150 

 
 407963 
 1 
 15957 
 15976 
 AGAGCAGGGTGCCTTGGAAG 
 160 
 13622 
 13641 
 151 

 
 407661 
 1 
 15963 
 15982 
 TTTACAAGAGCAGGGTGCCT 
 160 
 13628 
 13647 
 68 

 
 407604 
 2 
 297 
 316 
 CACACTGGTCCCCATCACTG 
 160 
 6730 
 6749 
 152 

 
 407620 
 2 
 652 
 671 
 AGGACCTGCCATGGACACTC 
 160 
 9906 
 9925 
 153 

 
 407621 
 2 
 657 
 676 
 ACAACAGGACCTGCCATGGA 
 161 
 723 
 742 
 154 

 
 407622 
 2 
 663 
 682 
 TCACCAACAACAGGACCTGC 
 160 
 10519 
 10538 
 155 

 
 407627 
 2 
 773 
 792 
 GCCCAGCACCGCGATCAGGT 
 160 
 10629 
 10648 
 156 

 
 407662 
 3 
 50 
 69 
 TCCTGCAGCCAGGCAGCCCT 
 160 
 632 
 651 
 159 

 Example 2

 Dose-Dependent Antisense Inhibition of Human Factor 7 in HepB3 Cells

 Several antisense oligonucleotides from Example 1 (see Table 1) exhibiting at least 80% in vitro inhibition of human Factor 7 were tested at various doses in HepB3 cells. Cells were plated at a density of 4,000 cells per well and treated with lipofectin reagent with 3.125 nM, 6.25 nM, 12.5 nM, 25 nM, 50 nM, and 100 nM concentrations of antisense oligonucleotide, as indicated in Table 3. After a treatment period of approximately 16 hours, RNA was isolated from the cells and Factor 7 mRNA levels were measured by real-time RT-PCR, as described herein. Human Factor 7 primer probe set RTS 2927 (forward sequence: GGGACCCTGATCAACACCAT, incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO: 164; reverse sequence: CCAGTTCTTGATTTTGTCGAAACA, incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO: 165; probe sequence: TGGGTGGTCTCCGCGGCCX, incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO: 166) was used to measure mRNA levels. Factor 7 mRNA levels were adjusted according to total RNA content as measured by RIBOGREEN®. Results are presented as percent inhibition of Factor 7, relative to untreated control cells. As illustrated in Table 3, Factor 7 mRNA levels were reduced in a dose-dependent manner.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 3 

 
 Dose-dependent antisense inhibition 

 
 of human Factor 7 in HepB3 cells 

 
 
 
 
 
 ISIS 
 3.125 
 6.25 
 12.5 
 25.0 
 50.0 
 100.0 
 SEQ ID 

 
 No. 
 nM 
 nM 
 nM 
 nM 
 nM 
 nM 
 No. 

 
 
 
 
 
 407641 
 53 
 53 
 71 
 84 
 88 
 89 
 48 

 
 407606 
 20 
 0 
 49 
 55 
 83 
 84 
 17 

 
 407594 
 10 
 34 
 63 
 77 
 84 
 80 
 6 

 
 407662 
 0 
 35 
 58 
 74 
 81 
 83 
 166 

 
 407643 
 16 
 59 
 68 
 76 
 92 
 95 
 50 

 
 407935 
 57 
 76 
 78 
 89 
 90 
 89 
 123 

 
 407939 
 62 
 79 
 83 
 91 
 92 
 92 
 127 

 
 407900 
 52 
 58 
 80 
 87 
 94 
 91 
 88 

 
 407936 
 45 
 77 
 79 
 86 
 91 
 90 
 124 

 
 407910 
 31 
 44 
 69 
 68 
 82 
 89 
 98 

 Example 3

 Antisense Inhibition of Human Factor 7 in HepB3 Cells

 Antisense oligonucleotides targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid were designed and tested for their effects on Factor 7 mRNA in vitro. Certain antisense oligonucleotides from Table 3 were also retested for their effects on Factor 7 mRNA in vitro. Cultured HepB3 cells at a density of 4,000 cells per well were transfected using lipofectin reagent with 50 nM antisense oligonucleotide. After a treatment period of approximately 24 hours, RNA was isolated from the cells and Factor 7 mRNA levels were measured by real-time RT-PCR, as described herein. Human Factor 7 primer probe set RTS 2927 was used to measure mRNA levels. Factor 7 mRNA levels were adjusted according to total RNA content as measured by RIBOGREEN®. Results are presented as percent inhibition of Factor 7, relative to untreated control.

 The chimeric antisense oligonucleotides in Table 4 were designed as 5-10-5 MOE gapmers. The gapmers are 20 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of ten 2′-deoxynucleotides and is flanked on both sides (in the 5′ and 3′ directions) by wings comprising five nucleotides each. Each nucleotide in the 5′ wing segment and each nucleotide in the 3′ wing segment has a 2′-MOE modification. The internucleoside linkages throughout each gapmer are phosphorothioate (P═S) linkages. All cytidine residues throughout each gapmer are 5-methylcytidines. The first seven listed gapmers in Table 4 are from Table 3 and are designated by an asterisk (*). “Human Target start site” indicates the 5′-most nucleotide to which the gapmer is targeted in the specified human gene sequence. “Human Target stop site” indicates the 3′-most nucleotide to which the gapmer is targeted in the specified human gene sequence. Each gapmer listed in Table 4 is targeted to SEQ ID NO: 1 (nucleotides 1255000 to 1273000 of GENBANK® Accession No. NT — 027140.6), SEQ ID NO: 2 (GENBANK® Accession No. NM — 019616.2), or SEQ ID NO: 167 (GENBANK® Accession No. NM — 000131.3).

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 4 

 
 Inhibition of human Factor 7 mRNA levels by chimeric 

 
 antisense oligonucleotides having 5-10-5 MOE wings 

 
 and deoxy gap targeted to SEQ ID NO: 1, SEQ ID NO: 2, 

 
 and SEQ ID NO: 167 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Human 
 Human 
 Human 

 
 
 Target 
 Target 
 Target 
 
 
 SEQ 

 
 
 SEQ 
 Start 
 Stop 
 
 % 
 ID 

 
 ISIS No. 
 ID NO 
 Site 
 Site 
 Sequence (5′ to 3′) 
 Inhibition 
 No. 

 
 
 
 
 
 *407606 
 1 
 9204 
 9223 
 CTGGTCCTTGCAGGAGCCCC 
 57 
 17 

 
 *407900 
 1 
 12141 
 12160 
 CCCCACAATTCGGCCTTGGG 
 78 
 88 

 
 *407910 
 1 
 14104 
 14123 
 AGTCCTTGCTGCCATCCGAG 
 72 
 98 

 
 *407641 
 1 
 14707 
 14726 
 CCTGAGGCCAGCAGATCACG 
 73 
 48 

 
 *407643 
 1 
 15098 
 15117 
 CACACATGGAGTCAGCATCG 
 80 
 50 

 
 *407935 
 1 
 15191 
 15210 
 ATGCATGGTGATGCTTCTGA 
 72 
 123 

 
 *407939 
 1 
 15255 
 15274 
 TGCAGCCCGGCACCCAGCGA 
 76 
 127 

 
 416492 
 1 
 616 
 635 
 GGATCATTCTGGCCCTGAGC 
 13 
 168 

 
 416493 
 1 
 738 
 757 
 TCTTGGGTGTGGATGTAAAT 
 0 
 169 

 
 416494 
 1 
 803 
 822 
 CAGATTTAAACTGCAGATGA 
 0 
 170 

 
 416495 
 1 
 838 
 857 
 TCTAGAATTCCAAACCCCTA 
 0 
 171 

 
 416496 
 1 
 855 
 874 
 CAACACTTCAAATACGATCT 
 0 
 172 

 
 416497 
 1 
 883 
 902 
 CGTGCAGGTGTTAAGGTGTG 
 0 
 173 

 
 416498 
 1 
 994 
 1013 
 GGCCAGTGGCCATGCATCCC 
 5 
 174 

 
 416499 
 1 
 1011 
 1030 
 GAGAGCTGCACCTGGCCGGC 
 7 
 175 

 
 416500 
 1 
 1026 
 1045 
 CTGAACACCCCAGCTGAGAG 
 1 
 176 

 
 416424 
 1 
 1151 
 1170 
 GAGACCATGATGAAATCTCT 
 27 
 177 

 
 416425 
 1 
 1182 
 1201 
 AAGCAGAAGGCAGAGGAGCC 
 13 
 178 

 
 416426 
 1 
 1187 
 1206 
 AGCCCAAGCAGAAGGCAGAG 
 34 
 179 

 
 416427 
 1 
 1193 
 1212 
 CCCTGAAGCCCAAGCAGAAG 
 5 
 180 

 
 416501 
 1 
 1251 
 1270 
 CTGCCCTTCCACCAAGTTTA 
 18 
 181 

 
 416502 
 1 
 1437 
 1456 
 GTTCTTTGAAAAATAATCCC 
 22 
 182 

 
 416423 
 1 
 2179 
 2198 
 GTGTTTCTCCTCCTGAGGCC 
 51 
 183 

 
 416503 
 1 
 2311 
 2330 
 TAGCCACCCCGCGGGCTGGC 
 0 
 184 

 
 416504 
 1 
 2484 
 2503 
 TCAGAAAAGCTCTCAAGAAC 
 0 
 185 

 
 416505 
 1 
 2495 
 2514 
 GCAGATTTGCATCAGAAAAG 
 45 
 186 

 
 416506 
 1 
 4766 
 4785 
 CTTTAAAATCAGTTTCACAC 
 18 
 187 

 
 416507 
 1 
 4847 
 4866 
 GGTTACTGAGCGCGGAAGAA 
 73 
 188 

 
 416508 
 1 
 4873 
 4892 
 CGAGTTCTGCAGGAGCGGCC 
 67 
 189 

 
 416509 
 1 
 4880 
 4899 
 AGGAGCCCGAGTTCTGCAGG 
 56 
 190 

 
 416510 
 1 
 4916 
 4935 
 GACGAGGCCTCAGGTGGACG 
 30 
 191 

 
 416511 
 1 
 4926 
 4945 
 TTGCTGGGAGGACGAGGCCT 
 35 
 192 

 
 416512 
 1 
 4934 
 4953 
 GACGACCTTTGCTGGGAGGA 
 43 
 193 

 
 416429 
 1 
 6022 
 6041 
 ACGCCGTGGGCTTCCTCCTG 
 47 
 194 

 
 416430 
 1 
 6066 
 6085 
 GCAGCTCCTCCAGGAACGCG 
 52 
 195 

 
 416431 
 1 
 6079 
 6098 
 AGGGAGCCCGGCCGCAGCTC 
 25 
 196 

 
 416432 
 1 
 6108 
 6127 
 AGCACTGCTCCTCCTTGCAC 
 44 
 197 

 
 416513 
 1 
 6399 
 6418 
 CTGATGTGAAAACCGGCATG 
 37 
 198 

 
 416514 
 1 
 6406 
 6425 
 GTATTTTCTGATGTGAAAAC 
 8 
 199 

 
 416515 
 1 
 8547 
 8566 
 TAGGCATGACCATCCTCAAT 
 39 
 200 

 
 416516 
 1 
 8599 
 8618 
 GTGAGAATACAACAGATGAG 
 24 
 201 

 
 416517 
 1 
 8708 
 8727 
 GGGTGCAGTAGCAGATGCAA 
 23 
 202 

 
 416518 
 1 
 8855 
 8874 
 GGGTGACCACACATTTCCTG 
 55 
 203 

 
 416434 
 1 
 9076 
 9095 
 CTGTAAGAAATCCAGAACAG 
 0 
 204 

 
 416491 
 1 
 9120 
 9139 
 GAGAAGGGTTGCAGGCAGGA 
 2 
 205 

 
 416438 
 1 
 9194 
 9213 
 CAGGAGCCCCCATTCTGGCA 
 63 
 206 

 
 416439 
 1 
 9201 
 9220 
 GTCCTTGCAGGAGCCCCCAT 
 56 
 207 

 
 416440 
 1 
 9213 
 9232 
 GGACTGGAGCTGGTCCTTGC 
 44 
 208 

 
 416441 
 1 
 9220 
 9239 
 AGATATAGGACTGGAGCTGG 
 32 
 209 

 
 416442 
 1 
 9223 
 9242 
 AGCAGATATAGGACTGGAGC 
 57 
 210 

 
 416443 
 1 
 9231 
 9250 
 GAGGCAGAAGCAGATATAGG 
 17 
 211 

 
 416444 
 1 
 9255 
 9274 
 ACAGTTCCGGCCCTCGAAGG 
 24 
 212 

 
 416519 
 1 
 9290 
 9309 
 AAATATGGGACCCAAAGTGG 
 9 
 213 

 
 416520 
 1 
 9298 
 9317 
 CCCTCTGCAAATATGGGACC 
 14 
 214 

 
 416521 
 1 
 9362 
 9381 
 CACCCCACCAGGTTGTGCAC 
 36 
 215 

 
 416522 
 1 
 9515 
 9534 
 GGCTGAGAATTGCCCAGGGC 
 25 
 216 

 
 416523 
 1 
 9522 
 9541 
 TCTCGAGGGCTGAGAATTGC 
 18 
 217 

 
 416524 
 1 
 9665 
 9684 
 TAATTTAATATTCAGATGGT 
 0 
 218 

 
 416525 
 1 
 9725 
 9744 
 TATGAGTCCTTCTAGTGAAT 
 5 
 219 

 
 416526 
 1 
 9848 
 9867 
 TGTCCACATGACCCCACAGG 
 19 
 220 

 
 416527 
 1 
 9912 
 9931 
 GAGCTTCCCAAGTTGGCAGT 
 49 
 221 

 
 416528 
 1 
 9942 
 9961 
 TGATAAAACCTCTGGACACC 
 10 
 222 

 
 416529 
 1 
 9999 
 10018 
 GGGCTGAGACTGAGGTCAGC 
 18 
 223 

 
 416530 
 1 
 10166 
 10185 
 AGGGTAGCCTTTGCCTTGGC 
 35 
 224 

 
 416531 
 1 
 10317 
 10336 
 AGATGACCAGCAGGAAGCCT 
 19 
 225 

 
 416532 
 1 
 10323 
 10342 
 GGACCCAGATGACCAGCAGG 
 12 
 226 

 
 416533 
 1 
 10330 
 10349 
 GCATTCTGGACCCAGATGAC 
 41 
 227 

 
 416534 
 1 
 10377 
 10396 
 ATGCACACCAGGGCTGCTGG 
 32 
 228 

 
 416535 
 1 
 10382 
 10401 
 GCAGGATGCACACCAGGGCT 
 47 
 229 

 
 416536 
 1 
 10398 
 10417 
 CGGGAAGGCCTGCCCTGCAG 
 23 
 230 

 
 416537 
 1 
 10677 
 10696 
 TGACCACTCTTCCGAGCAGC 
 55 
 231 

 
 416538 
 1 
 10807 
 10826 
 CGTGGACTGATCCAAAGGAC 
 46 
 232 

 
 416539 
 1 
 10837 
 10856 
 GACAGAGCCTGAGCTTGGCA 
 53 
 233 

 
 416445 
 1 
 11013 
 11032 
 TACTGCTCACAGCCGCCGTT 
 57 
 234 

 
 416446 
 1 
 11024 
 11043 
 GGTCACTGCAGTACTGCTCA 
 64 
 235 

 
 416540 
 1 
 11143 
 11162 
 GGACTGGTGTCATCTGGGAC 
 38 
 236 

 
 416541 
 1 
 11259 
 11278 
 CCACCCTTGGTGCCCAGATC 
 53 
 237 

 
 416542 
 1 
 11297 
 11316 
 CAGGGTGCCCATCCTAGTCA 
 56 
 238 

 
 416543 
 1 
 11395 
 11414 
 TCCTGCGAGTGGGAGTTGGA 
 0 
 239 

 
 416544 
 1 
 11499 
 11518 
 ATCCCATTTTCCCAGGAGCC 
 58 
 240 

 
 416545 
 1 
 11505 
 11524 
 AGAAACATCCCATTTTCCCA 
 8 
 241 

 
 416546 
 1 
 11519 
 11538 
 CCAGGCTGGTTTGGAGAAAC 
 21 
 242 

 
 416547 
 1 
 11729 
 11748 
 ATGAAATTCTACCTAAAGAT 
 0 
 243 

 
 416548 
 1 
 11735 
 11754 
 AGGTGAATGAAATTCTACCT 
 29 
 244 

 
 416549 
 1 
 11838 
 11857 
 GACAATGGTCAGGGCTGGTT 
 68 
 245 

 
 416550 
 1 
 11852 
 11871 
 TGGCTGGCTGAGGAGACAAT 
 55 
 246 

 
 416551 
 1 
 12000 
 12019 
 CAGAAACACCCATCCTCTGA 
 19 
 247 

 
 416448 
 1 
 12088 
 12107 
 TTTTTCCACATGGATATTCA 
 34 
 248 

 
 416449 
 1 
 12094 
 12113 
 TAGGTATTTTTCCACATGGA 
 68 
 249 

 
 416450 
 1 
 12122 
 12141 
 GGTTTGCTGGCATTTCTTTT 
 49 
 250 

 
 416451 
 1 
 12175 
 12194 
 GCCATGGACACTCCCCTTTG 
 75 
 251 

 
 416552 
 1 
 12398 
 12417 
 TCTGCACAGGGTAGACCCTC 
 46 
 252 

 
 416553 
 1 
 12403 
 12422 
 GGTTCTCTGCACAGGGTAGA 
 56 
 253 

 
 416554 
 1 
 12467 
 12486 
 AAAGATCCCACCTCAAAGAG 
 7 
 254 

 
 416555 
 1 
 12478 
 12497 
 AAAGATCAGGCAAAGATCCC 
 6 
 255 

 
 416556 
 1 
 12508 
 12527 
 ATAGCTTTGATCCAATGCTC 
 53 
 256 

 
 416557 
 1 
 12639 
 12658 
 TCCCAGGCAAAGCTGCTCAG 
 56 
 257 

 
 416453 
 1 
 12867 
 12886 
 GATTTTGTCGAAACAGTGGG 
 45 
 258 

 
 416558 
 1 
 13159 
 13178 
 TGACAGCACGAAGCCCAGAG 
 19 
 259 

 
 416559 
 1 
 13638 
 13657 
 GCCATTTCTAGGTCTGCAGG 
 25 
 260 

 
 416455 
 1 
 13760 
 13779 
 CGCCGGCTCTGCTCATCCCC 
 72 
 261 

 
 416456 
 1 
 13770 
 13789 
 CTGCGCCACCCGCCGGCTCT 
 58 
 262 

 
 416457 
 1 
 13780 
 13799 
 GGATGATGACCTGCGCCACC 
 48 
 263 

 
 416458 
 1 
 13831 
 13850 
 GGCGGAGCAGCGCGATGTCG 
 29 
 264 

 
 416459 
 1 
 13859 
 13878 
 TGGTCAGTGAGGACCACGGG 
 23 
 265 

 
 416460 
 1 
 13866 
 13885 
 CACCACATGGTCAGTGAGGA 
 49 
 266 

 
 416461 
 1 
 13923 
 13942 
 GAAGCGCACGAAGGCCAGCG 
 43 
 267 

 
 416462 
 1 
 14020 
 14039 
 GGCAGTCCTGGGTCATCAGC 
 60 
 268 

 
 416463 
 1 
 14027 
 14046 
 TGCTGCAGGCAGTCCTGGGT 
 39 
 269 

 
 416464 
 1 
 14072 
 14091 
 AACATGTACTCCGTGATATT 
 53 
 270 

 
 416465 
 1 
 14122 
 14141 
 CACTGTCCCCCTTGCAGGAG 
 51 
 271 

 
 416466 
 1 
 14132 
 14151 
 TGTGGGCCTCCACTGTCCCC 
 57 
 272 

 
 416467 
 1 
 14189 
 14208 
 CCCTGGCCCCAGCTGACGAT 
 55 
 273 

 
 416468 
 1 
 14234 
 14253 
 TGGGAGACCCTGGTGTACAC 
 46 
 274 

 
 416469 
 1 
 14251 
 14270 
 GCAGCCACTCGATGTACTGG 
 55 
 275 

 
 416470 
 1 
 14257 
 14276 
 GCTTTTGCAGCCACTCGATG 
 39 
 276 

 
 416471 
 1 
 14260 
 14279 
 TGAGCTTTTGCAGCCACTCG 
 62 
 277 

 
 416472 
 1 
 14348 
 14367 
 CAGCCTTGGCTTTCTCTCCA 
 76 
 278 

 
 416473 
 1 
 14613 
 14632 
 CCCTGCCCCTCTGTCCAGCG 
 61 
 279 

 
 416474 
 1 
 14642 
 14661 
 TGTCTGCCTCCAGGACAACC 
 40 
 280 

 
 416475 
 1 
 14653 
 14672 
 CTCAGCTGGGCTGTCTGCCT 
 70 
 281 

 
 416476 
 1 
 14686 
 14705 
 GCAGGTGGGCTTGGCTGAAG 
 58 
 282 

 
 416477 
 1 
 14710 
 14729 
 CAGCCTGAGGCCAGCAGATC 
 74 
 283 

 
 416478 
 1 
 14735 
 14754 
 GTCTCCAGCAATGAAGGCAG 
 44 
 284 

 
 416479 
 1 
 15103 
 15122 
 GACAGCACACATGGAGTCAG 
 56 
 285 

 
 416480 
 1 
 15132 
 15151 
 AAGTGAGAGCTAAACAACCG 
 25 
 286 

 
 416481 
 1 
 15157 
 15176 
 AGATGATAATGGATAAGAAC 
 15 
 287 

 
 416482 
 1 
 15188 
 15207 
 CATGGTGATGCTTCTGAATT 
 64 
 288 

 
 416483 
 1 
 15433 
 15452 
 TGTGAGGGTTCATTTCAGTG 
 22 
 289 

 
 416484 
 1 
 15485 
 15504 
 TACAGCCTCAAACATCTATC 
 0 
 290 

 
 416485 
 1 
 15489 
 15508 
 GAGCTACAGCCTCAAACATC 
 7 
 291 

 
 416486 
 1 
 15540 
 15559 
 ATTGACAAGGGCTGTGGCAG 
 12 
 292 

 
 416487 
 1 
 15571 
 15590 
 GCAGGTGCTCCCAGGGTCTC 
 39 
 293 

 
 416488 
 1 
 15639 
 15658 
 CAGGTCCTCCCACTGCAGCC 
 41 
 294 

 
 416489 
 1 
 15650 
 15669 
 GTGCAGCTTGCCAGGTCCTC 
 38 
 295 

 
 416490 
 1 
 15661 
 15680 
 ACTCAGCAAGAGTGCAGCTT 
 33 
 296 

 
 416560 
 1 
 15973 
 15992 
 TAAAACTTTATTTACAAGAG 
 0 
 297 

 
 416561 
 1 
 15985 
 16004 
 GGTGTGTTCCCATAAAACTT 
 16 
 298 

 
 416562 
 1 
 16185 
 16204 
 AAAGCAGAGCCAGCTCTGAC 
 12 
 299 

 
 416563 
 1 
 16596 
 16615 
 GCCTGCATTTCCCATTGGCA 
 0 
 300 

 
 416564 
 1 
 16738 
 16757 
 GCCACTCACAGAAAGCTGGA 
 0 
 301 

 
 416565 
 1 
 16872 
 16891 
 CAGGATGCTCATGGCAGACA 
 0 
 302 

 
 416566 
 1 
 16911 
 16930 
 GTTTGTATGGAGAGACCAAT 
 0 
 303 

 
 416567 
 1 
 16977 
 16996 
 TGGTGGCACCAGATGTCTGA 
 2 
 304 

 
 416568 
 1 
 17112 
 17131 
 CATTGTGCCTGGCACACAGG 
 14 
 305 

 
 416569 
 1 
 17136 
 17155 
 GCCTGGTGTGCACACATTGT 
 12 
 306 

 
 416428 
 2 
 110 
 129 
 CTGGGTTACGAAGACTGCAG 
 11 
 307 

 
 416422 
 167 
 107 
 126 
 AGCGACCCCGCCTGCAGCCA 
 8 
 308 

 
 416433 
 167 
 341 
 360 
 AGAAATCCAGAACAGCTTCG 
 0 
 309 

 
 416435 
 167 
 353 
 372 
 CCCATCACTGTAAGAAATCC 
 3 
 310 

 
 416436 
 167 
 360 
 379 
 ACTGGTCCCCATCACTGTAA 
 27 
 311 

 
 416437 
 167 
 366 
 385 
 AGGCACACTGGTCCCCATCA 
 52 
 312 

 
 416447 
 167 
 616 
 635 
 CATGGATATTCAACTGTGGG 
 17 
 313 

 
 416452 
 167 
 726 
 745 
 CCAACAACAGGACCTGCCAT 
 19 
 314 

 
 416454 
 167 
 846 
 865 
 CGTGCTCGCCCAGCACCGCG 
 56 
 315 

 Certain gapmers from Table 4 are 100% homologous to the rhesus monkey genomic sequence (nucleotides 691000 to 706000 of GENBANK Accession No. NW — 00104507.1; incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO: 162) or the rhesus monkey mRNA sequence (GENKBANK Accession No. 3360 — 061_B; incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO: 163). Shown in Table 5 are the chimeric antisense oligonucleotides from Table 4, which are homologous with rhesus monkey.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 5 

 
 Human/rhesus monkey cross-reactive chimeric antisense 

 
 oligonucleotides having 5-10-5 MOE wings and deoxy gap 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Rhesus 
 Rhesus 

 
 
 Human 
 Human 
 Human 
 
 Rhesus 
 Monkey 
 Monkey 

 
 
 Target 
 Target 
 Target 
 
 Target 
 Target 
 Target 
 SEQ 

 
 ISIS 
 SEQ 
 Start 
 Stop 
 
 SEQ 
 Start 
 Stop 
 ID 

 
 No. 
 ID No. 
 Site 
 Site 
 Sequence (5′ to 3′) 
 ID No. 
 Site 
 Site 
 No. 

 
 
 
 
 
 407606 
 1 
 9204 
 9223 
 CTGGTCCTTGCAGGAGCCCC 
 162 
 6771 
 6790 
 17 

 
 407900 
 1 
 12141 
 12160 
 CCCCACAATTCGGCCTTGGG 
 162 
 9865 
 9884 
 88 

 
 407910 
 1 
 14104 
 14123 
 AGTCCTTGCTGCCATCCGAG 
 162 
 11826 
 11845 
 98 

 
 407641 
 1 
 14707 
 14726 
 CCTGAGGCCAGCAGATCACG 
 162 
 12427 
 12446 
 48 

 
 407643 
 1 
 15098 
 15117 
 CACACATGGAGTCAGCATCG 
 162 
 12815 
 12834 
 50 

 
 407935 
 1 
 15191 
 15210 
 ATGCATGGTGATGCTTCTGA 
 162 
 12908 
 12927 
 123 

 
 416492 
 1 
 616 
 635 
 GGATCATTCTGGCCCTGAGC 
 162 
 24 
 43 
 168 

 
 416493 
 1 
 738 
 757 
 TCTTGGGTGTGGATGTAAAT 
 162 
 149 
 168 
 169 

 
 416494 
 1 
 803 
 822 
 CAGATTTAAACTGCAGATGA 
 162 
 214 
 233 
 170 

 
 416495 
 1 
 838 
 857 
 TCTAGAATTCCAAACCCCTA 
 162 
 259 
 278 
 171 

 
 416496 
 1 
 855 
 874 
 CAACACTTCAAATACGATCT 
 162 
 276 
 295 
 172 

 
 416497 
 1 
 883 
 902 
 CGTGCAGGTGTTAAGGTGTG 
 162 
 306 
 325 
 173 

 
 416498 
 1 
 994 
 1013 
 GGCCAGTGGCCATGCATCCC 
 162 
 417 
 436 
 174 

 
 416499 
 1 
 1011 
 1030 
 GAGAGCTGCACCTGGCCGGC 
 162 
 434 
 453 
 175 

 
 416500 
 1 
 1026 
 1045 
 CTGAACACCCCAGCTGAGAG 
 162 
 449 
 468 
 176 

 
 416424 
 1 
 1151 
 1170 
 GAGACCATGATGAAATCTCT 
 162 
 574 
 593 
 177 

 
 416425 
 1 
 1182 
 1201 
 AAGCAGAAGGCAGAGGAGCC 
 162 
 605 
 624 
 178 

 
 416426 
 1 
 1187 
 1206 
 AGCCCAAGCAGAAGGCAGAG 
 162 
 610 
 629 
 179 

 
 416427 
 1 
 1193 
 1212 
 CCCTGAAGCCCAAGCAGAAG 
 162 
 616 
 635 
 180 

 
 416501 
 1 
 1251 
 1270 
 CTGCCCTTCCACCAAGTTTA 
 162 
 674 
 693 
 181 

 
 416502 
 1 
 1437 
 1456 
 GTTCTTTGAAAAATAATCCC 
 162 
 858 
 877 
 182 

 
 416423 
 1 
 2179 
 2198 
 GTGTTTCTCCTCCTGAGGCC 
 162 
 1638 
 1657 
 183 

 
 416503 
 1 
 2311 
 2330 
 TAGCCACCCCGCGGGCTGGC 
 162 
 1771 
 1790 
 184 

 
 416504 
 1 
 2484 
 2503 
 TCAGAAAAGCTCTCAAGAAC 
 162 
 1944 
 1963 
 185 

 
 416505 
 1 
 2495 
 2514 
 GCAGATTTGCATCAGAAAAG 
 162 
 1955 
 1974 
 186 

 
 416506 
 1 
 4766 
 4785 
 CTTTAAAATCAGTTTCACAC 
 162 
 2556 
 2575 
 187 

 
 416507 
 1 
 4847 
 4866 
 GGTTACTGAGCGCGGAAGAA 
 162 
 2637 
 2656 
 188 

 
 416508 
 1 
 4873 
 4892 
 CGAGTTCTGCAGGAGCGGCC 
 162 
 2663 
 2682 
 189 

 
 416509 
 1 
 4880 
 4899 
 AGGAGCCCGAGTTCTGCAGG 
 162 
 2670 
 2689 
 190 

 
 416510 
 1 
 4916 
 4935 
 GACGAGGCCTCAGGTGGACG 
 162 
 2706 
 2725 
 191 

 
 416511 
 1 
 4926 
 4945 
 TTGCTGGGAGGACGAGGCCT 
 162 
 2716 
 2735 
 192 

 
 416512 
 1 
 4934 
 4953 
 GACGACCTTTGCTGGGAGGA 
 162 
 2724 
 2743 
 193 

 
 416513 
 1 
 6399 
 6418 
 CTGATGTGAAAACCGGCATG 
 162 
 4144 
 4163 
 198 

 
 416514 
 1 
 6406 
 6425 
 GTATTTTCTGATGTGAAAAC 
 162 
 4151 
 4170 
 199 

 
 416515 
 1 
 8547 
 8566 
 TAGGCATGACCATCCTCAAT 
 162 
 6104 
 6123 
 200 

 
 416516 
 1 
 8599 
 8618 
 GTGAGAATACAACAGATGAG 
 162 
 6156 
 6175 
 201 

 
 416517 
 1 
 8708 
 8727 
 GGGTGCAGTAGCAGATGCAA 
 162 
 6265 
 6284 
 202 

 
 416518 
 1 
 8855 
 8874 
 GGGTGACCACACATTTCCTG 
 162 
 6422 
 6441 
 203 

 
 416434 
 1 
 9076 
 9095 
 CTGTAAGAAATCCAGAACAG 
 162 
 6640 
 6659 
 204 

 
 416491 
 1 
 9120 
 9139 
 GAGAAGGGTTGCAGGCAGGA 
 162 
 6684 
 6703 
 205 

 
 416438 
 1 
 9194 
 9213 
 CAGGAGCCCCCATTCTGGCA 
 162 
 6761 
 6780 
 206 

 
 416439 
 1 
 9201 
 9220 
 GTCCTTGCAGGAGCCCCCAT 
 162 
 6768 
 6787 
 207 

 
 416440 
 1 
 9213 
 9232 
 GGACTGGAGCTGGTCCTTGC 
 162 
 6780 
 6799 
 208 

 
 416441 
 1 
 9220 
 9239 
 AGATATAGGACTGGAGCTGG 
 162 
 6787 
 6806 
 209 

 
 416442 
 1 
 9223 
 9242 
 AGCAGATATAGGACTGGAGC 
 162 
 6790 
 6809 
 210 

 
 416443 
 1 
 9231 
 9250 
 GAGGCAGAAGCAGATATAGG 
 162 
 6798 
 6817 
 211 

 
 416444 
 1 
 9255 
 9274 
 ACAGTTCCGGCCCTCGAAGG 
 162 
 6822 
 6841 
 212 

 
 416519 
 1 
 9290 
 9309 
 AAATATGGGACCCAAAGTGG 
 162 
 6857 
 6876 
 213 

 
 416520 
 1 
 9298 
 9317 
 CCCTCTGCAAATATGGGACC 
 162 
 6865 
 6884 
 214 

 
 416521 
 1 
 9362 
 9381 
 CACCCCACCAGGTTGTGCAC 
 162 
 6906 
 6925 
 215 

 
 416522 
 1 
 9515 
 9534 
 GGCTGAGAATTGCCCAGGGC 
 162 
 7059 
 7078 
 216 

 
 416523 
 1 
 9522 
 9541 
 TCTCGAGGGCTGAGAATTGC 
 162 
 7066 
 7085 
 217 

 
 416524 
 1 
 9665 
 9684 
 TAATTTAATATTCAGATGGT 
 162 
 7239 
 7258 
 218 

 
 416525 
 1 
 9725 
 9744 
 TATGAGTCCTTCTAGTGAAT 
 162 
 7299 
 7318 
 219 

 
 416526 
 1 
 9848 
 9867 
 TGTCCACATGACCCCACAGG 
 162 
 7422 
 7441 
 220 

 
 416527 
 1 
 9912 
 9931 
 GAGCTTCCCAAGTTGGCAGT 
 162 
 7479 
 7498 
 221 

 
 416528 
 1 
 9942 
 9961 
 TGATAAAACCTCTGGACACC 
 162 
 7509 
 7528 
 222 

 
 416529 
 1 
 9999 
 10018 
 GGGCTGAGACTGAGGTCAGC 
 162 
 7566 
 7585 
 223 

 
 416530 
 1 
 10166 
 10185 
 AGGGTAGCCTTTGCCTTGGC 
 162 
 7852 
 7871 
 224 

 
 416531 
 1 
 10317 
 10336 
 AGATGACCAGCAGGAAGCCT 
 162 
 8006 
 8025 
 225 

 
 416532 
 1 
 10323 
 10342 
 GGACCCAGATGACCAGCAGG 
 162 
 8012 
 8031 
 226 

 
 416533 
 1 
 10330 
 10349 
 GCATTCTGGACCCAGATGAC 
 162 
 8019 
 8038 
 227 

 
 416534 
 1 
 10377 
 10396 
 ATGCACACCAGGGCTGCTGG 
 162 
 8066 
 8085 
 228 

 
 416535 
 1 
 10382 
 10401 
 GCAGGATGCACACCAGGGCT 
 162 
 8071 
 8090 
 229 

 
 416536 
 1 
 10398 
 10417 
 CGGGAAGGCCTGCCCTGCAG 
 162 
 8087 
 8106 
 230 

 
 416537 
 1 
 10677 
 10696 
 TGACCACTCTTCCGAGCAGC 
 162 
 8376 
 8395 
 231 

 
 416538 
 1 
 10807 
 10826 
 CGTGGACTGATCCAAAGGAC 
 162 
 8505 
 8524 
 232 

 
 416539 
 1 
 10837 
 10856 
 GACAGAGCCTGAGCTTGGCA 
 162 
 8535 
 8554 
 233 

 
 416445 
 1 
 11013 
 11032 
 TACTGCTCACAGCCGCCGTT 
 162 
 8710 
 8729 
 234 

 
 416446 
 1 
 11024 
 11043 
 GGTCACTGCAGTACTGCTCA 
 162 
 8721 
 8740 
 235 

 
 416540 
 1 
 11143 
 11162 
 GGACTGGTGTCATCTGGGAC 
 162 
 8840 
 8859 
 236 

 
 416541 
 1 
 11259 
 11278 
 CCACCCTTGGTGCCCAGATC 
 162 
 8953 
 8972 
 237 

 
 416542 
 1 
 11297 
 11316 
 CAGGGTGCCCATCCTAGTCA 
 162 
 8991 
 9010 
 238 

 
 416543 
 1 
 11395 
 11414 
 TCCTGCGAGTGGGAGTTGGA 
 162 
 9089 
 9108 
 239 

 
 416544 
 1 
 11499 
 11518 
 ATCCCATTTTCCCAGGAGCC 
 162 
 9193 
 9212 
 240 

 
 416545 
 1 
 11505 
 11524 
 AGAAACATCCCATTTTCCCA 
 162 
 9199 
 9218 
 241 

 
 416546 
 1 
 11519 
 11538 
 CCAGGCTGGTTTGGAGAAAC 
 162 
 9213 
 9232 
 242 

 
 416547 
 1 
 11729 
 11748 
 ATGAAATTCTACCTAAAGAT 
 162 
 9434 
 9453 
 243 

 
 416548 
 1 
 11735 
 11754 
 AGGTGAATGAAATTCTACCT 
 162 
 9440 
 9459 
 244 

 
 416549 
 1 
 11838 
 11857 
 GACAATGGTCAGGGCTGGTT 
 162 
 9543 
 9562 
 245 

 
 416550 
 1 
 11852 
 11871 
 TGGCTGGCTGAGGAGACAAT 
 162 
 9557 
 9576 
 246 

 
 416551 
 1 
 12000 
 12019 
 CAGAAACACCCATCCTCTGA 
 162 
 9724 
 9743 
 247 

 
 416448 
 1 
 12088 
 12107 
 TTTTTCCACATGGATATTCA 
 162 
 9812 
 9831 
 248 

 
 416449 
 1 
 12094 
 12113 
 TAGGTATTTTTCCACATGGA 
 162 
 9818 
 9837 
 249 

 
 416450 
 1 
 12122 
 12141 
 GGTTTGCTGGCATTTCTTTT 
 162 
 9846 
 9865 
 250 

 
 416451 
 1 
 12175 
 12194 
 GCCATGGACACTCCCCTTTG 
 162 
 9899 
 9918 
 251 

 
 416552 
 1 
 12398 
 12417 
 TCTGCACAGGGTAGACCCTC 
 162 
 10127 
 10146 
 252 

 
 416553 
 1 
 12403 
 12422 
 GGTTCTCTGCACAGGGTAGA 
 162 
 10132 
 10151 
 253 

 
 416554 
 1 
 12467 
 12486 
 AAAGATCCCACCTCAAAGAG 
 162 
 10196 
 10215 
 254 

 
 416555 
 1 
 12478 
 12497 
 AAAGATCAGGCAAAGATCCC 
 162 
 10207 
 10226 
 255 

 
 416556 
 1 
 12508 
 12527 
 ATAGCTTTGATCCAATGCTC 
 162 
 10237 
 10256 
 256 

 
 416557 
 1 
 12639 
 12658 
 TCCCAGGCAAAGCTGCTCAG 
 162 
 10368 
 10387 
 257 

 
 416453 
 1 
 12867 
 12886 
 GATTTTGTCGAAACAGTGGG 
 162 
 10596 
 10615 
 258 

 
 416558 
 1 
 13159 
 13178 
 TGACAGCACGAAGCCCAGAG 
 162 
 10880 
 10899 
 259 

 
 416559 
 1 
 13638 
 13657 
 GCCATTTCTAGGTCTGCAGG 
 162 
 11360 
 11379 
 260 

 
 416455 
 1 
 13760 
 13779 
 CGCCGGCTCTGCTCATCCCC 
 162 
 11482 
 11501 
 261 

 
 416456 
 1 
 13770 
 13789 
 CTGCGCCACCCGCCGGCTCT 
 162 
 11492 
 11511 
 262 

 
 416457 
 1 
 13780 
 13799 
 GGATGATGACCTGCGCCACC 
 162 
 11502 
 11521 
 263 

 
 416458 
 1 
 13831 
 13850 
 GGCGGAGCAGCGCGATGTCG 
 162 
 11553 
 11572 
 264 

 
 416459 
 1 
 13859 
 13878 
 TGGTCAGTGAGGACCACGGG 
 162 
 11581 
 11600 
 265 

 
 416460 
 1 
 13866 
 13885 
 CACCACATGGTCAGTGAGGA 
 162 
 11588 
 11607 
 266 

 
 416461 
 1 
 13923 
 13942 
 GAAGCGCACGAAGGCCAGCG 
 162 
 11645 
 11664 
 267 

 
 416462 
 1 
 14020 
 14039 
 GGCAGTCCTGGGTCATCAGC 
 162 
 11742 
 11761 
 268 

 
 416463 
 1 
 14027 
 14046 
 TGCTGCAGGCAGTCCTGGGT 
 162 
 11749 
 11768 
 269 

 
 416464 
 1 
 14072 
 14091 
 AACATGTACTCCGTGATATT 
 162 
 11794 
 11813 
 270 

 
 416465 
 1 
 14122 
 14141 
 CACTGTCCCCCTTGCAGGAG 
 162 
 11844 
 11863 
 271 

 
 416466 
 1 
 14132 
 14151 
 TGTGGGCCTCCACTGTCCCC 
 162 
 11854 
 11873 
 272 

 
 416467 
 1 
 14189 
 14208 
 CCCTGGCCCCAGCTGACGAT 
 162 
 11911 
 11930 
 273 

 
 416468 
 1 
 14234 
 14253 
 TGGGAGACCCTGGTGTACAC 
 162 
 11956 
 11975 
 274 

 
 416469 
 1 
 14251 
 14270 
 GCAGCCACTCGATGTACTGG 
 162 
 11973 
 11992 
 275 

 
 416470 
 1 
 14257 
 14276 
 GCTTTTGCAGCCACTCGATG 
 162 
 11979 
 11998 
 276 

 
 416471 
 1 
 14260 
 14279 
 TGAGCTTTTGCAGCCACTCG 
 162 
 11982 
 12001 
 277 

 
 416472 
 1 
 14348 
 14367 
 CAGCCTTGGCTTTCTCTCCA 
 162 
 12070 
 12089 
 278 

 
 416473 
 1 
 14613 
 14632 
 CCCTGCCCCTCTGTCCAGCG 
 162 
 12333 
 125352 
 279 

 
 416474 
 1 
 14642 
 14661 
 TGTCTGCCTCCAGGACAACC 
 162 
 12362 
 12381 
 280 

 
 416475 
 1 
 14653 
 14672 
 CTCAGCTGGGCTGTCTGCCT 
 162 
 12373 
 12392 
 281 

 
 416476 
 1 
 14686 
 14705 
 GCAGGTGGGCTTGGCTGAAG 
 162 
 12406 
 12425 
 282 

 
 416477 
 1 
 14710 
 14729 
 CAGCCTGAGGCCAGCAGATC 
 162 
 12430 
 12449 
 283 

 
 416478 
 1 
 14735 
 14754 
 GTCTCCAGCAATGAAGGCAG 
 162 
 12455 
 12474 
 284 

 
 416479 
 1 
 15103 
 15122 
 GACAGCACACATGGAGTCAG 
 162 
 12820 
 12839 
 285 

 
 416480 
 1 
 15132 
 15151 
 AAGTGAGAGCTAAACAACCG 
 162 
 12849 
 12868 
 286 

 
 416481 
 1 
 15157 
 15176 
 AGATGATAATGGATAAGAAC 
 162 
 12874 
 12893 
 287 

 
 416482 
 1 
 15188 
 15207 
 CATGGTGATGCTTCTGAATT 
 162 
 12905 
 12924 
 288 

 
 416483 
 1 
 15433 
 15452 
 TGTGAGGGTTCATTTCAGTG 
 162 
 13130 
 13149 
 289 

 
 416484 
 1 
 15485 
 15504 
 TACAGCCTCAAACATCTATC 
 162 
 13184 
 13203 
 290 

 
 416485 
 1 
 15489 
 15508 
 GAGCTACAGCCTCAAACATC 
 162 
 13188 
 13207 
 291 

 
 416486 
 1 
 15540 
 15559 
 ATTGACAAGGGCTGTGGCAG 
 162 
 13239 
 13258 
 292 

 
 416487 
 1 
 15571 
 15590 
 GCAGGTGCTCCCAGGGTCTC 
 162 
 13270 
 13289 
 293 

 
 416488 
 1 
 15639 
 15658 
 CAGGTCCTCCCACTGCAGCC 
 162 
 13334 
 13353 
 294 

 
 416489 
 1 
 15650 
 15669 
 GTGCAGCTTGCCAGGTCCTC 
 162 
 13345 
 13364 
 295 

 
 416490 
 1 
 15661 
 15680 
 ACTCAGCAAGAGTGCAGCTT 
 162 
 13356 
 13375 
 296 

 
 416560 
 1 
 15973 
 15992 
 TAAAACTTTATTTACAAGAG 
 162 
 13638 
 13657 
 297 

 
 416561 
 1 
 15985 
 16004 
 GGTGTGTTCCCATAAAACTT 
 162 
 13650 
 13669 
 298 

 
 416562 
 1 
 16185 
 16204 
 AAAGCAGAGCCAGCTCTGAC 
 162 
 13849 
 13868 
 299 

 
 416563 
 1 
 16596 
 16615 
 GCCTGCATTTCCCATTGGCA 
 162 
 13931 
 13950 
 300 

 
 416564 
 1 
 16738 
 16757 
 GCCACTCACAGAAAGCTGGA 
 162 
 14071 
 14090 
 301 

 
 416565 
 1 
 16872 
 16891 
 CAGGATGCTCATGGCAGACA 
 162 
 14205 
 14224 
 302 

 
 416566 
 1 
 16911 
 16930 
 GTTTGTATGGAGAGACCAAT 
 162 
 14244 
 14263 
 303 

 
 416567 
 1 
 16977 
 16996 
 TGGTGGCACCAGATGTCTGA 
 162 
 14310 
 14329 
 304 

 
 416568 
 1 
 17112 
 17131 
 CATTGTGCCTGGCACACAGG 
 162 
 14445 
 14464 
 305 

 
 416569 
 1 
 17136 
 17155 
 GCCTGGTGTGCACACATTGT 
 162 
 14469 
 14488 
 306 

 
 416422 
 167 
 107 
 126 
 AGCGACCCCGCCTGCAGCCA 
 163 
 107 
 126 
 308 

 
 416433 
 167 
 341 
 360 
 AGAAATCCAGAACAGCTTCG 
 163 
 341 
 360 
 309 

 
 416435 
 167 
 353 
 372 
 CCCATCACTGTAAGAAATCC 
 163 
 353 
 372 
 310 

 
 416436 
 167 
 360 
 379 
 ACTGGTCCCCATCACTGTAA 
 163 
 360 
 379 
 311 

 
 416437 
 167 
 366 
 385 
 AGGCACACTGGTCCCCATCA 
 163 
 366 
 385 
 312 

 
 416447 
 167 
 616 
 635 
 CATGGATATTCAACTGTGGG 
 163 
 616 
 635 
 313 

 
 416452 
 167 
 726 
 745 
 CCAACAACAGGACCTGCCAT 
 163 
 726 
 745 
 314 

 
 416454 
 167 
 846 
 865 
 CGTGCTCGCCCAGCACCGCG 
 163 
 846 
 865 
 315 

 Example 4

 Antisense Inhibition of Human Factor 7 in HepB3 Cells

 Antisense oligonucleotides targeted to a Factor 7 nucleic acid were designed and tested for their effects on Factor 7 mRNA in vitro. Cultured HepB3 cells at a density of 4,000 cells per well were transfected using lipofectin reagent with 50 nM antisense oligonucleotide. After a treatment period of approximately 24 hours, RNA was isolated from the cells and Factor 7 mRNA levels were measured by real-time RT-PCR, as described herein. Human Factor 7 primer probe set RTS 2927 was used to measure mRNA levels. Factor 7 mRNA levels were adjusted according to total RNA content as measured by RIBOGREEN®. Results are presented as percent inhibition of Factor 7, relative to untreated control.

 The chimeric antisense oligonucleotides in Table 6 were designed as 5-10-5 MOE, 3-14-3 MOE, and 2-13-5 MOE gapmers. The 5-10-5 gapmers are 20 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of ten 2′-deoxynucleotides and is flanked on both sides (in the 5′ and 3′ directions) by wings comprising five nucleotides each. The 3-14-3 gapmers are 20 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of fourteen 2′-deoxynucleotides and is flanked on both sides (in the 5′ and 3′ directions) by wings comprising three nucleotides each. The 2-13-5 gapmers are 20 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of thirteen 2′-deoxynucleotides. The central gap is flanked on the 5′ end with a wing comprising two nucleotides and on the 3′ end with a wing comprising five nucleotides. For each of the motifs (5-10-5, 3-14-3, and 2-13-5), each nucleotide in the 5′ wing segment and each nucleotide in the 3′ wing segment has a 2′-MOE modification. The internucleoside linkages throughout each gapmer are phosphorothioate (P═S) linkages. All cytidine residues throughout each gapmer are 5-methylcytidines. “Target start site” indicates the 5′-most nucleotide to which the gapmer is targeted. “Target stop site” indicates the 3′-most nucleotide to which the gapmer is targeted. Each gapmer listed in Table 6 is targeted to SEQ ID NO: 1 (nucleotides 1255000 to 1273000 of GENBANK Accession No. NT — 027140.6).

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 6 

 
 Inhibition of human Factor 7 mRNA levels by chimeric 

 
 antisense oligonucleotides targeted to SEQ ID NO: 1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Target 
 Target 
 
 
 
 SEQ 

 
 ISIS 
 Start 
 Stop 
 
 
 % 
 ID 

 
 No. 
 Site 
 Site 
 Sequence (5′ to 3′) 
 Motif 
 Inhibition 
 No. 

 
 
 
 
 
 422117 
 4834 
 4853 
 GGAAGAAGGGACGGAAGGTG 
 5-10-5 
 1 
 316 

 
 422186 
 4834 
 4853 
 GGAAGAAGGGACGGAAGGTG 
 3-14-3 
 14 
 316 

 
 422263 
 4834 
 4853 
 GGAAGAAGGGACGGAAGGTG 
 2-13-5 
 19 
 316 

 
 422118 
 4835 
 4854 
 CGGAAGAAGGGACGGAAGGT 
 5-10-5 
 15 
 317 

 
 422187 
 4835 
 4854 
 CGGAAGAAGGGACGGAAGGT 
 3-14-3 
 28 
 317 

 
 422264 
 4835 
 4854 
 CGGAAGAAGGGACGGAAGGT 
 2-13-5 
 24 
 317 

 
 422119 
 4836 
 4855 
 GCGGAAGAAGGGACGGAAGG 
 5-10-5 
 39 
 318 

 
 422188 
 4836 
 4855 
 GCGGAAGAAGGGACGGAAGG 
 3-14-3 
 37 
 318 

 
 422265 
 4836 
 4855 
 GCGGAAGAAGGGACGGAAGG 
 2-13-5 
 34 
 318 

 
 422120 
 4837 
 4856 
 CGCGGAAGAAGGGACGGAAG 
 5-10-5 
 40 
 319 

 
 422189 
 4837 
 4856 
 CGCGGAAGAAGGGACGGAAG 
 3-14-3 
 0 
 319 

 
 422266 
 4837 
 4856 
 CGCGGAAGAAGGGACGGAAG 
 2-13-5 
 13 
 319 

 
 422121 
 4838 
 4857 
 GCGCGGAAGAAGGGACGGAA 
 5-10-5 
 43 
 320 

 
 422190 
 4838 
 4857 
 GCGCGGAAGAAGGGACGGAA 
 3-14-3 
 12 
 320 

 
 422267 
 4838 
 4857 
 GCGCGGAAGAAGGGACGGAA 
 2-13-5 
 38 
 320 

 
 422122 
 4839 
 4858 
 AGCGCGGAAGAAGGGACGGA 
 5-10-5 
 24 
 321 

 
 422191 
 4839 
 4858 
 AGCGCGGAAGAAGGGACGGA 
 3-14-3 
 27 
 321 

 
 422268 
 4839 
 4858 
 AGCGCGGAAGAAGGGACGGA 
 2-13-5 
 63 
 321 

 
 422123 
 4840 
 4859 
 GAGCGCGGAAGAAGGGACGG 
 5-10-5 
 16 
 322 

 
 422192 
 4840 
 4859 
 GAGCGCGGAAGAAGGGACGG 
 3-14-3 
 27 
 322 

 
 422269 
 4840 
 4859 
 GAGCGCGGAAGAAGGGACGG 
 2-13-5 
 27 
 322 

 
 422124 
 4841 
 4860 
 TGAGCGCGGAAGAAGGGACG 
 5-10-5 
 0 
 323 

 
 422193 
 4841 
 4860 
 TGAGCGCGGAAGAAGGGACG 
 3-14-3 
 6 
 323 

 
 422270 
 4841 
 4860 
 TGAGCGCGGAAGAAGGGACG 
 2-13-5 
 15 
 323 

 
 422125 
 4842 
 4861 
 CTGAGCGCGGAAGAAGGGAC 
 5-10-5 
 8 
 324 

 
 422194 
 4842 
 4861 
 CTGAGCGCGGAAGAAGGGAC 
 3-14-3 
 11 
 324 

 
 422271 
 4842 
 4861 
 CTGAGCGCGGAAGAAGGGAC 
 2-13-5 
 32 
 324 

 
 422126 
 4843 
 4862 
 ACTGAGCGCGGAAGAAGGGA 
 5-10-5 
 22 
 325 

 
 422195 
 4843 
 4862 
 ACTGAGCGCGGAAGAAGGGA 
 3-14-3 
 37 
 325 

 
 422272 
 4843 
 4862 
 ACTGAGCGCGGAAGAAGGGA 
 2-13-5 
 12 
 325 

 
 422127 
 4844 
 4863 
 TACTGAGCGCGGAAGAAGGG 
 5-10-5 
 17 
 326 

 
 422196 
 4844 
 4863 
 TACTGAGCGCGGAAGAAGGG 
 3-14-3 
 2 
 326 

 
 422273 
 4844 
 4863 
 TACTGAGCGCGGAAGAAGGG 
 2-13-5 
 0 
 326 

 
 422128 
 4845 
 4864 
 TTACTGAGCGCGGAAGAAGG 
 5-10-5 
 27 
 327 

 
 422197 
 4845 
 4864 
 TTACTGAGCGCGGAAGAAGG 
 3-14-3 
 26 
 327 

 
 422274 
 4845 
 4864 
 TTACTGAGCGCGGAAGAAGG 
 2-13-5 
 24 
 327 

 
 422129 
 4846 
 4865 
 GTTACTGAGCGCGGAAGAAG 
 5-10-5 
 45 
 328 

 
 422198 
 4846 
 4865 
 GTTACTGAGCGCGGAAGAAG 
 3-14-3 
 50 
 328 

 
 422275 
 4846 
 4865 
 GTTACTGAGCGCGGAAGAAG 
 2-13-5 
 42 
 328 

 
 422199 
 4847 
 4866 
 GGTTACTGAGCGCGGAAGAA 
 3-14-3 
 65 
 188 

 
 422276 
 4847 
 4866 
 GGTTACTGAGCGCGGAAGAA 
 2-13-5 
 66 
 188 

 Example 5

 Dose-Dependent Antisense Inhibition of Human Coagulation Factor 7 in HepB3 Cells

 Gapmers (from Tables 1 through 6, above) exhibiting in vitro inhibition of Factor 7 were selected and tested at various doses in HepB3 cells. Cells were plated at a density of 4,000 cells per well and transfected using lipofectin reagent with 6.25 nM, 12.5 nM, 25.0 nM, 50.0 nM, and 100.0 nM concentrations of antisense oligonucleotide, as indicated in Table 7. After a treatment period of approximately 16 hours, RNA was isolated from the cells and Factor 7 mRNA levels were measured by real-time RT-PCR, as described herein. Human Factor 7 primer probe set RTS 2927 was used to measure mRNA levels. Factor 7 mRNA levels were adjusted according to total RNA content as measured by RIBOGREEN®. Results are presented as percent inhibition of Factor 7, relative to untreated control cells. As illustrated in Table 7, Factor 7 mRNA levels were reduced in a dose-dependent manner.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 7 

 
 Dose-dependent antisense inhibition 

 
 of human Factor 7 in HepB3 cells 

 
 
 
 
 
 ISIS 
 6.25 
 12.5 
 25.0 
 50.0 
 100.0 
 SEQ ID 

 
 No. 
 nM 
 nM 
 nM 
 nM 
 nM 
 No. 

 
 
 
 
 
 407643 
 36 
 49 
 70 
 83 
 93 
 50 

 
 407900 
 18 
 36 
 61 
 82 
 91 
 88 

 
 407935 
 38 
 53 
 70 
 82 
 86 
 123 

 
 407939 
 37 
 57 
 77 
 84 
 87 
 127 

 
 416438 
 11 
 33 
 56 
 75 
 82 
 206 

 
 416446 
 25 
 24 
 50 
 69 
 64 
 235 

 
 416449 
 19 
 33 
 45 
 65 
 85 
 249 

 
 416455 
 28 
 44 
 64 
 78 
 87 
 261 

 
 416472 
 16 
 44 
 64 
 80 
 88 
 278 

 
 416477 
 21 
 46 
 64 
 78 
 87 
 283 

 
 416507 
 30 
 53 
 70 
 77 
 72 
 188 

 
 416508 
 42 
 51 
 71 
 79 
 89 
 189 

 
 416549 
 38 
 44 
 63 
 73 
 78 
 245 

 Example 6

 Antisense Inhibition of Human Factor 7 in HepB3 Cells by Oligonucleotides Designed by Microwalk

 Additional gapmers were designed based on the gapmers presented in Table 7. These gapmers were designed by creating gapmers shifted slightly upstream and downstream (i.e. “microwalk”) of the original gapmers from Table 7. Gapmers were also created with various motifs, e.g. 5-10-5 MOE, 3-14-3 MOE, and 2-13-5 MOE. These gapmers were tested in vitro. Cultured HepB3 cells at a density of 4,000 cells per well were transfected using lipofectin reagent with 50 nM antisense oligonucleotide. After a treatment period of approximately 24 hours, RNA was isolated from the cells and Factor 7 mRNA levels were measured by real-time RT-PCR. Factor 7 mRNA levels were adjusted according to total RNA content, as measured by RIBOGREEN®. Results are presented as percent inhibition of Factor 7, relative to untreated control cells.

 The in vitro inhibition data for the gapmers designed by microwalk was then compared with the in vitro inhibition data for the gapmers from Table 7, as indicated in Tables 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13. The oligonucleotides are displayed according to the region on the human gene sequence to which they map.

 The chimeric antisense oligonucleotides in Table 8 were designed as 5-10-5 MOE, 3-14-3 MOE, and 2-13-5 MOE gapmers. The first listed gapmer in Table 8 is the original gapmer (see Table 7) from which the remaining gapmers were designed via microwalk and is designated by an asterisk (*). The 5-10-5 gapmers are 20 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of ten 2′-deoxynucleotides and is flanked on both sides (in the 5′ and 3′ directions) by wings comprising five nucleotides each. The 3-14-3 gapmers are 20 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of fourteen 2′-deoxynucleotides and is flanked on both sides (in the 5′ and 3′ directions) by wings comprising three nucleotides each. The 2-13-5 gapmers are 20 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of thirteen 2′-deoxynucleotides. The central gap is flanked on the 5′ end with a wing comprising two nucleotides and on the 3′ end with a wing comprising five nucleotides. For each of the motifs (5-10-5, 3-14-3, and 2-13-5), each nucleotide in the 5′ wing segment and each nucleotide in the 3′ wing segment has a 2′-MOE modification. The internucleoside linkages throughout each gapmer are phosphorothioate (P═S) linkages. All cytidine residues throughout each gapmer are 5-methylcytidines. “Target start site” indicates the 5′-most nucleotide to which the gapmer is targeted. “Target stop site” indicates the 3′-most nucleotide to which the gapmer is targeted. Each gapmer listed in Table 8 is targeted to SEQ ID NO: 1 (nucleotides 1255000 to 1273000 of GENBANK Accession No. NT — 027140.6).

 As shown in Table 8, all of the 5-10-5 MOE gapmers, 3-14-3 MOE gapmers, and 2-13-5 MOE gapmers targeted to the target region beginning at target start site 4868 and ending at the target stop site 4899 (i.e. nucleobases 4868-4899) of SEQ ID NO: 1 inhibited Factor 7 mRNA by at least 48%.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 4868-4899) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 40%, for example, ISIS numbers 416508, 422138, 422213, 422290, 422139, 422214, 422291, 422140, 422215, 422292, 422141, 422216, 422293, 422142, 422217, 422294, 422218, 422295, 422143, 422219, 422296, 422144, 422220, 422297, 422145, 422221, 422298, 422146, 422222, 422299, 422147, 422223, 422300, 422148, 422224, 422301, 416509, 422225, and 422302.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 4868-4899) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 50%, for example, ISIS numbers 416508, 422138, 422213, 422290, 422139, 422214, 422291, 422140, 422215, 422292, 422141, 422216, 422293, 422142, 422217, 422294, 422218, 422295, 422143, 422219, 422296, 422144, 422220, 422297, 422145, 422221, 422298, 422146, 422222, 422299, 422147, 422300, 422148, 422224, 422301, 416509, 422225, and 422302.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 4868-4899) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 60%, for example, ISIS numbers 416508, 422138, 422213, 422139, 422140, 422215, 422292, 422141, 422216, 422293, 422142, 422217, 422294, 422218, 422295, 422143, 422219, 422296, 422297, 422298, 422299, 422147, 422300, 422224, 422301, 416509, and 422302.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 4868-4899) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 70%, for example, ISIS numbers 422138, 422140, 422215, 422292, 422142, 422217, 422294, 422218, 422295, 422143, and 422296.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 8 

 
 Inhibition of human Factor 7 mRNA levels by chimeric 

 
 antisense oligonucleotides targeted to 

 
 nucleobases 4868 to 4899 of SEQ ID NO: 1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Target 
 Target 

 
 
 Start 
 Stop 
 
 
 % 
 SEQ ID 

 
 ISIS No. 
 Site 
 Site 
 Sequence (5′ to 3′) 
 Motif 
 Inhibition 
 NO 

 
 
 
 
 
 *416508 
 4873 
 4892 
 CGAGTTCTGCAGGAGCGGCC 
 5-10-5 
 67 
 189 

 
 422138 
 4868 
 4887 
 TCTGCAGGAGCGGCCTAAAT 
 5-10-5 
 70 
 329 

 
 422213 
 4868 
 4887 
 TCTGCAGGAGCGGCCTAAAT 
 3-14-3 
 67 
 329 

 
 422290 
 4868 
 4887 
 TCTGCAGGAGCGGCCTAAAT 
 2-13-5 
 50 
 329 

 
 422139 
 4869 
 4888 
 TTCTGCAGGAGCGGCCTAAA 
 5-10-5 
 66 
 330 

 
 422214 
 4869 
 4888 
 TTCTGCAGGAGCGGCCTAAA 
 3-14-3 
 60 
 330 

 
 422291 
 4869 
 4888 
 TTCTGCAGGAGCGGCCTAAA 
 2-13-5 
 53 
 330 

 
 422140 
 4870 
 4889 
 GTTCTGCAGGAGCGGCCTAA 
 5-10-5 
 74 
 331 

 
 422215 
 4870 
 4889 
 GTTCTGCAGGAGCGGCCTAA 
 3-14-3 
 73 
 331 

 
 422292 
 4870 
 4889 
 GTTCTGCAGGAGCGGCCTAA 
 2-13-5 
 75 
 331 

 
 422141 
 4871 
 4890 
 AGTTCTGCAGGAGCGGCCTA 
 5-10-5 
 64 
 332 

 
 422216 
 4871 
 4890 
 AGTTCTGCAGGAGCGGCCTA 
 3-14-3 
 68 
 332 

 
 422293 
 4871 
 4890 
 AGTTCTGCAGGAGCGGCCTA 
 2-13-5 
 69 
 332 

 
 422142 
 4872 
 4891 
 GAGTTCTGCAGGAGCGGCCT 
 5-10-5 
 73 
 333 

 
 422217 
 4872 
 4891 
 GAGTTCTGCAGGAGCGGCCT 
 3-14-3 
 75 
 333 

 
 422294 
 4872 
 4891 
 GAGTTCTGCAGGAGCGGCCT 
 2-13-5 
 78 
 333 

 
 422218 
 4873 
 4892 
 CGAGTTCTGCAGGAGCGGCC 
 3-1-4-3 
 70 
 189 

 
 422295 
 4873 
 4892 
 CGAGTTCTGCAGGAGCGGCC 
 2-13-5 
 74 
 189 

 
 422143 
 4874 
 4893 
 CCGAGTTCTGCAGGAGCGGC 
 5-10-5 
 70 
 334 

 
 422219 
 4874 
 4893 
 CCGAGTTCTGCAGGAGCGGC 
 3-14-3 
 65 
 334 

 
 422296 
 4874 
 4893 
 CCGAGTTCTGCAGGAGCGGC 
 2-13-5 
 74 
 334 

 
 422144 
 4875 
 4894 
 CCCGAGTTCTGCAGGAGCGG 
 5-10-5 
 58 
 335 

 
 422220 
 4875 
 4894 
 CCCGAGTTCTGCAGGAGCGG 
 3-1-4-3 
 59 
 335 

 
 422297 
 4875 
 4894 
 CCCGAGTTCTGCAGGAGCGG 
 2-13-5 
 63 
 335 

 
 422145 
 4876 
 4895 
 GCCCGAGTTCTGCAGGAGCG 
 5-10-5 
 57 
 336 

 
 422221 
 4876 
 4895 
 GCCCGAGTTCTGCAGGAGCG 
 3-1-4-3 
 59 
 336 

 
 422298 
 4876 
 4895 
 GCCCGAGTTCTGCAGGAGCG 
 2-1-3-5 
 62 
 336 

 
 422146 
 4877 
 4896 
 AGCCCGAGTTCTGCAGGAGC 
 5-10-5 
 58 
 337 

 
 422222 
 4877 
 4896 
 AGCCCGAGTTCTGCAGGAGC 
 3-14-3 
 55 
 337 

 
 422299 
 4877 
 4896 
 AGCCCGAGTTCTGCAGGAGC 
 2-13-5 
 64 
 337 

 
 422147 
 4878 
 4897 
 GAGCCCGAGTTCTGCAGGAG 
 5-10-5 
 64 
 338 

 
 422223 
 4878 
 4897 
 GAGCCCGAGTTCTGCAGGAG 
 3-1-4-3 
 48 
 338 

 
 422300 
 4878 
 4897 
 GAGCCCGAGTTCTGCAGGAG 
 2-13-5 
 65 
 338 

 
 422148 
 4879 
 4898 
 GGAGCCCGAGTTCTGCAGGA 
 5-10-5 
 57 
 339 

 
 422224 
 4879 
 4898 
 GGAGCCCGAGTTCTGCAGGA 
 3-14-3 
 62 
 339 

 
 422301 
 4879 
 4898 
 GGAGCCCGAGTTCTGCAGGA 
 2-13-5 
 67 
 339 

 
 416509 
 4880 
 4899 
 AGGAGCCCGAGTTCTGCAGG 
 5-10-5 
 60 
 190 

 
 422225 
 4880 
 4899 
 AGGAGCCCGAGTTCTGCAGG 
 3-14-3 
 56 
 190 

 
 422302 
 4880 
 4899 
 AGGAGCCCGAGTTCTGCAGG 
 2-13-5 
 67 
 190 

 The chimeric antisense oligonucleotides in Table 9 were designed as 5-10-5 MOE, 3-14-3 MOE, and 2-13-5 MOE gapmers. The first listed gapmer in Table 9 is the original gapmer (see Table 7) from which the remaining gapmers were designed via microwalk and is designated by an asterisk (*). The 5-10-5 gapmers are 20 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of 10 2′-deoxynucleotides and is flanked on both sides (in the 5′ and 3′ directions) by wings comprising 5 nucleotides each. The 3-14-3 gapmers are 20 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of 14 2′-deoxynucleotides and is flanked on both sides (in the 5′ and 3′ directions) by wings comprising 3 nucleotides each. The 2-13-5 gapmers are 20 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of 13 2′-deoxynucleotides. The central gap is flanked on the 5′ end with a wing comprising 2 nucleotides and on the 3′ end with a wing comprising 5 nucleotides. For each of the motifs (5-10-5, 3-14-3, and 2-13-5), each nucleotide in the 5′ wing segment and each nucleotide in the 3′ wing segment has a 2′-MOE modification. The internucleoside linkages throughout each gapmer are phosphorothioate (P═S) linkages. All cytidine residues throughout each gapmer are 5-methylcytidines. “Target start site” indicates the 5′-most nucleotide to which the gapmer is targeted. “Target stop site” indicates the 3′-most nucleotide to which the gapmer is targeted. Each gapmer listed in Table 9 is targeted to SEQ ID NO: 1 (nucleotides 1255000 to 1273000 of GENBANK Accession No. NT — 027140.6).

 As shown in Table 9, most of the 5-10-5 MOE gapmers, 3-14-3 MOE gapmers, and 2-13-5 MOE gapmers targeted to the target region beginning at target start site 11830 and ending at the target stop site 11869 (i.e. nucleobases 11830-11869) of SEQ ID NO: 1 inhibited Factor 7 mRNA by at least 40%.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 11830-11869) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 20%, for example, ISIS numbers 416549, 422154, 422231, 422089, 422155, 422232, 422090, 422156, 422233, 422091, 422157, 422234, 422092, 422158, 422235, 422093, 422159, 422236, 422094, 422160, 422237, 422095, 422161, 422238, 422162, 422239, 422096, 422163, 422240, 422097, 422164, 422241, 422098, 422165, 422242, 422099, 422166, 422243, 422100, 422167, 422244, 422101, 422168, 422245, 422102, 422169, 422246, 422103, 422170, 422247, 422104, 422171, 422248, 422105, 422172, 422249, 422106, 422173, 422250, 422107, 422174, and 422251.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 11830-11869) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 30%, for example, ISIS numbers 416549, 422154, 422155, 422232, 422090, 422156, 422233, 422091, 422157, 422234, 422092, 422158, 422235, 422093, 422159, 422236, 422094, 422160, 422237, 422095, 422161, 422238, 422162, 422239, 422096, 422163, 422240, 422097, 422164, 422241, 422098, 422165, 422242, 422099, 422166, 422243, 422100, 422167, 422244, 422101, 422168, 422102, 422169, 422246, 422103, 422247, 422104, 422171, 422248, 422105, 422172, 422249, 422106, 422173, 422250, 422107, 422174, and 422251.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 11830-11869) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 40%, for example, ISIS numbers 416549, 422232, 422090, 422233, 422091, 422157, 422234, 422158, 422235, 422093, 422159, 422236, 422094, 422160, 422237, 422095, 422161, 422238, 422162, 422239, 422096, 422163, 422240, 422097, 422164, 422241, 422098, 422165, 422242, 422099, 422166, 422243, 422100, 422167, 422244, 422101, 422102, 422169, 422246, 422104, 422171, 422248, 422105, 422249, 422173, 422250, and 422174.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 11830-11869) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 50%, for example, ISIS numbers 416549, 422234, 422235, 422237, 422095, 422161, 422238, 422162, 422239, 422096, 422163, 422240, 422097, 422164, 422241, 422098, 422165, 422242, 422166, 422243, 422100, 422167, 422244, 422102, 422169, 422104, 422171, 422248, 422105, 422249, 422173, 422250, and 422174.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 11830-11869) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 60%, for example, ISIS numbers 416549, 422234, 422095, 422238, 422239, 422096, 422240, 422164, 422241, 422242, 422166, 422243, 422102, 422171, 422248, and 422105.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 11830-11869) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 70%, for example, ISIS number 422096.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 9 

 
 Inhibition of human Factor 7 mRNA levels by chimeric 

 
 antisense oligonucleotides targeted to nucleobases 

 
 11830 to 11869 of SEQ ID NO: 1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Target 
 Target 

 
 
 Start 
 Stop 
 
 
 % 
 SEQ ID 

 
 Oligo ID 
 Site 
 Site 
 Sequence (5′ to 3′) 
 Motif 
 Inhibition 
 NO 

 
 
 
 
 
 *416549 
 11838 
 11857 
 GACAATGGTCAGGGCTGGTT 
 5-10-5 
 69 
 245 

 
 422088 
 11830 
 11849 
 TCAGGGCTGGTTTTGGAGGA 
 5-10-5 
 8 
 340 

 
 422154 
 11830 
 11849 
 TCAGGGCTGGTTTTGGAGGA 
 3-14-3 
 31 
 340 

 
 422231 
 11830 
 11849 
 TCAGGGCTGGTTTTGGAGGA 
 2-13-5 
 22 
 340 

 
 422089 
 11831 
 11850 
 GTCAGGGCTGGTTTTGGAGG 
 5-10-5 
 22 
 341 

 
 422155 
 11831 
 11850 
 GTCAGGGCTGGTTTTGGAGG 
 3-1-4-3 
 34 
 341 

 
 422232 
 11831 
 11850 
 GTCAGGGCTGGTTTTGGAGG 
 2-13-5 
 41 
 341 

 
 422090 
 11832 
 11851 
 GGTCAGGGCTGGTTTTGGAG 
 5-10-5 
 42 
 342 

 
 422156 
 11832 
 11851 
 GGTCAGGGCTGGTTTTGGAG 
 3-1-4-3 
 38 
 342 

 
 422233 
 11832 
 11851 
 GGTCAGGGCTGGTTTTGGAG 
 2-13-5 
 46 
 342 

 
 422091 
 11833 
 11852 
 TGGTCAGGGCTGGTTTTGGA 
 5-10-5 
 42 
 343 

 
 422157 
 11833 
 11852 
 TGGTCAGGGCTGGTTTTGGA 
 3-14-3 
 49 
 343 

 
 422234 
 11833 
 11852 
 TGGTCAGGGCTGGTTTTGGA 
 2-13-5 
 62 
 343 

 
 422092 
 11834 
 11853 
 ATGGTCAGGGCTGGTTTTGG 
 5-10-5 
 36 
 344 

 
 422158 
 11834 
 11853 
 ATGGTCAGGGCTGGTTTTGG 
 3-14-3 
 49 
 344 

 
 422235 
 11834 
 11853 
 ATGGTCAGGGCTGGTTTTGG 
 2-13-5 
 50 
 344 

 
 422093 
 11835 
 11854 
 AATGGTCAGGGCTGGTTTTG 
 5-10-5 
 42 
 345 

 
 422159 
 11835 
 11854 
 AATGGTCAGGGCTGGTTTTG 
 3-14-3 
 45 
 345 

 
 422236 
 11835 
 11854 
 AATGGTCAGGGCTGGTTTTG 
 2-1-3-5 
 44 
 345 

 
 422094 
 11836 
 11855 
 CAATGGTCAGGGCTGGTTTT 
 5-10-5 
 48 
 346 

 
 422160 
 11836 
 11855 
 CAATGGTCAGGGCTGGTTTT 
 3-14-3 
 42 
 346 

 
 422237 
 11836 
 11855 
 CAATGGTCAGGGCTGGTTTT 
 2-13-5 
 50 
 346 

 
 422095 
 11837 
 11856 
 ACAATGGTCAGGGCTGGTTT 
 5-10-5 
 60 
 347 

 
 422161 
 11837 
 11856 
 ACAATGGTCAGGGCTGGTTT 
 3-14-3 
 53 
 347 

 
 422238 
 11837 
 11856 
 ACAATGGTCAGGGCTGGTTT 
 2-13-5 
 64 
 347 

 
 422162 
 11838 
 11857 
 GACAATGGTCAGGGCTGGTT 
 3-14-3 
 59 
 245 

 
 422239 
 11838 
 11857 
 GACAATGGTCAGGGCTGGTT 
 2-13-5 
 67 
 245 

 
 422096 
 11839 
 11858 
 AGACAATGGTCAGGGCTGGT 
 5-10-5 
 76 
 348 

 
 422163 
 11839 
 11858 
 AGACAATGGTCAGGGCTGGT 
 3-14-3 
 56 
 348 

 
 422240 
 11839 
 11858 
 AGACAATGGTCAGGGCTGGT 
 2-13-5 
 66 
 348 

 
 422097 
 11840 
 11859 
 GAGACAATGGTCAGGGCTGG 
 5-10-5 
 59 
 349 

 
 422164 
 11840 
 11859 
 GAGACAATGGTCAGGGCTGG 
 3-14-3 
 64 
 349 

 
 422241 
 11840 
 11859 
 GAGACAATGGTCAGGGCTGG 
 2-13-5 
 61 
 349 

 
 422098 
 11841 
 11860 
 GGAGACAATGGTCAGGGCTG 
 5-10-5 
 53 
 350 

 
 422165 
 11841 
 11860 
 GGAGACAATGGTCAGGGCTG 
 3-14-3 
 57 
 350 

 
 422242 
 11841 
 11860 
 GGAGACAATGGTCAGGGCTG 
 2-13-5 
 64 
 350 

 
 422099 
 11842 
 11861 
 AGGAGACAATGGTCAGGGCT 
 5-10-5 
 48 
 351 

 
 422166 
 11842 
 11861 
 AGGAGACAATGGTCAGGGCT 
 3-14-3 
 63 
 351 

 
 422243 
 11842 
 11861 
 AGGAGACAATGGTCAGGGCT 
 2-13-5 
 62 
 351 

 
 422100 
 11843 
 11862 
 GAGGAGACAATGGTCAGGGC 
 5-10-5 
 59 
 352 

 
 422167 
 11843 
 11862 
 GAGGAGACAATGGTCAGGGC 
 3-14-3 
 53 
 352 

 
 422244 
 11843 
 11862 
 GAGGAGACAATGGTCAGGGC 
 2-13-5 
 55 
 352 

 
 422101 
 11844 
 11863 
 TGAGGAGACAATGGTCAGGG 
 5-10-5 
 42 
 353 

 
 422168 
 11844 
 11863 
 TGAGGAGACAATGGTCAGGG 
 3-1-4-3 
 30 
 353 

 
 422245 
 11844 
 11863 
 TGAGGAGACAATGGTCAGGG 
 2-13-5 
 24 
 353 

 
 422102 
 11845 
 11864 
 CTGAGGAGACAATGGTCAGG 
 5-10-5 
 62 
 354 

 
 422169 
 11845 
 11864 
 CTGAGGAGACAATGGTCAGG 
 3-14-3 
 56 
 354 

 
 422246 
 11845 
 11864 
 CTGAGGAGACAATGGTCAGG 
 2-13-5 
 46 
 354 

 
 422103 
 11846 
 11865 
 GCTGAGGAGACAATGGTCAG 
 5-10-5 
 38 
 355 

 
 422170 
 11846 
 11865 
 GCTGAGGAGACAATGGTCAG 
 3-14-3 
 28 
 355 

 
 422247 
 11846 
 11865 
 GCTGAGGAGACAATGGTCAG 
 2-13-5 
 36 
 355 

 
 422104 
 11847 
 11866 
 GGCTGAGGAGACAATGGTCA 
 5-10-5 
 59 
 356 

 
 422171 
 11847 
 11866 
 GGCTGAGGAGACAATGGTCA 
 3-14-3 
 61 
 356 

 
 422248 
 11847 
 11866 
 GGCTGAGGAGACAATGGTCA 
 2-13-5 
 60 
 356 

 
 422105 
 11848 
 11867 
 TGGCTGAGGAGACAATGGTC 
 5-10-5 
 60 
 357 

 
 422172 
 11848 
 11867 
 TGGCTGAGGAGACAATGGTC 
 3-14-3 
 39 
 357 

 
 422249 
 11848 
 11867 
 TGGCTGAGGAGACAATGGTC 
 2-13-5 
 52 
 357 

 
 422106 
 11849 
 11868 
 CTGGCTGAGGAGACAATGGT 
 5-10-5 
 32 
 358 

 
 422173 
 11849 
 11868 
 CTGGCTGAGGAGACAATGGT 
 3-14-3 
 51 
 358 

 
 422250 
 11849 
 11868 
 CTGGCTGAGGAGACAATGGT 
 2-1-3-5 
 54 
 358 

 
 422107 
 11850 
 11869 
 GCTGGCTGAGGAGACAATGG 
 5-10-5 
 36 
 359 

 
 422174 
 11850 
 11869 
 GCTGGCTGAGGAGACAATGG 
 3-14-3 
 55 
 359 

 
 422251 
 11850 
 11869 
 GCTGGCTGAGGAGACAATGG 
 2-13-5 
 36 
 359 

 The chimeric antisense oligonucleotides in Table 10 were designed as 5-10-5 MOE, 3-14-3 MOE, and 2-13-5 MOE gapmers. The first listed gapmer in Table 10 is the original gapmer (see Table 7) from which the remaining gapmers were designed via microwalk and is designated by an asterisk (*). The 5-10-5 gapmers are 20 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of 10 2′-deoxynucleotides and is flanked on both sides (in the 5′ and 3′ directions) by wings comprising 5 nucleotides each. The 3-14-3 gapmers are 20 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of 14 2′-deoxynucleotides and is flanked on both sides (in the 5′ and 3′ directions) by wings comprising 3 nucleotides each. The 2-13-5 gapmers are 20 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of 13 2′-deoxynucleotides. The central gap is flanked on the 5′ end with a wing comprising 2 nucleotides and on the 3′ end with a wing comprising 5 nucleotides. For each of the motifs (5-10-5, 3-14-3, and 2-13-5), each nucleotide in the 5′ wing segment and each nucleotide in the 3′ wing segment has a 2′-MOE modification. The internucleoside linkages throughout each gapmer are phosphorothioate (P═S) linkages. All cytidine residues throughout each gapmer are 5-methylcytidines. “Target start site” indicates the 5′-most nucleotide to which the gapmer is targeted. “Target stop site” indicates the 3′-most nucleotide to which the gapmer is targeted. Each gapmer listed in Table 10 is targeted to SEQ ID NO: 1 (nucleotides 1255000 to 1273000 of GENBANK Accession No. NT — 027140.6).

 As shown in Table 10, most of the 5-10-5 MOE gapmers, 3-14-3 MOE gapmers, and 2-13-5 MOE gapmers targeted to the target region beginning at target start site 13760 and ending at the target stop site 13789 (i.e. nucleobases 13760-13789) of SEQ ID NO: 1 inhibited Factor 7 mRNA by at least 30%.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 13760-13789) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 20%, for example, ISIS numbers 416455, 422175, 422252, 422108, 422176, 422253, 422109, 422177, 422254, 422110, 422178, 422255, 422111, 422179, 422256, 422112, 422180, 422257, 422113, 422181, 422258, 422114, 422259, 422115, 422183, 422260, 422116, 422184, 422261, 416456, and 422185.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 13760-13789) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 30%, for example, ISIS numbers 416455, 422175, 422252, 422108, 422176, 422253, 422109, 422177, 422254, 422110, 422178, 422255, 422111, 422179, 422112, 422180, 422257, 422113, 422181, 422258, 422114, 422259, 422115, 422183, 422260, 422116, 422184, 422261, 416456, and 422185.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 13760-13789) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 40%, for example, ISIS numbers 416455, 422175, 422252, 422108, 422176, 422253, 422109, 422177, 422254, 422110, 422179, 422112, 422180, 422257, 422113, 422181, 422258, 422114, 422259, 422115, 422183, 422260, 422116, 422184, 422261, 416456, and 422185.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 13760-13789) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 50%, for example, ISIS numbers 416455, 422175, 422252, 422108, 422176, 422253, 422109, 422177, 422110, 422112, 422180, 422257, 422113, 422181, 422258, 422114, 422259, 422115, 422183, 422260, 422116, 422184, 422261, and 416456.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 13760-13789) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 60%, for example, ISIS numbers 422175, 422252, 422108, 422253, 422109, 422177, 422112, 422257, 422113, 422181, 422258, 422259, 422115, 422183, and 422261.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 13760-13789) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 70%, for example, ISIS numbers 422252, 422177, 422183, and 422261.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 10 

 
 Inhibition of human Factor 7 mRNA levels by chimeric 

 
 antisense oligonucleotides targeted to nucleobases 

 
 13760 to 13789 of SEQ ID NO: 1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Target 
 Target 

 
 
 Start 
 Stop 
 
 
 % 
 SEQ ID 

 
 ISIS No. 
 Site 
 Site 
 Sequence (5′ to 3′) 
 Motif 
 Inhibition 
 NO 

 
 
 
 
 
 *416455 
 13760 
 13779 
 CGCCGGCTCTGCTCATCCCC 
 5-10-5 
 51 
 261 

 
 422175 
 13760 
 13779 
 CGCCGGCTCTGCTCATCCCC 
 3-14-3 
 69 
 261 

 
 422252 
 13760 
 13779 
 CGCCGGCTCTGCTCATCCCC 
 2-13-5 
 70 
 261 

 
 422108 
 13761 
 13780 
 CCGCCGGCTCTGCTCATCCC 
 5-10-5 
 69 
 360 

 
 422176 
 13761 
 13780 
 CCGCCGGCTCTGCTCATCCC 
 3-14-3 
 52 
 360 

 
 422253 
 13761 
 13780 
 CCGCCGGCTCTGCTCATCCC 
 2-13-5 
 61 
 360 

 
 422109 
 13762 
 13781 
 CCCGCCGGCTCTGCTCATCC 
 5-10-5 
 68 
 361 

 
 422177 
 13762 
 13781 
 CCCGCCGGCTCTGCTCATCC 
 3-14-3 
 74 
 361 

 
 422254 
 13762 
 13781 
 CCCGCCGGCTCTGCTCATCC 
 2-13-5 
 42 
 361 

 
 422110 
 13763 
 13782 
 ACCCGCCGGCTCTGCTCATC 
 5-10-5 
 53 
 362 

 
 422178 
 13763 
 13782 
 ACCCGCCGGCTCTGCTCATC 
 3-14-3 
 37 
 362 

 
 422255 
 13763 
 13782 
 ACCCGCCGGCTCTGCTCATC 
 2-13-5 
 30 
 362 

 
 422111 
 13764 
 13783 
 CACCCGCCGGCTCTGCTCAT 
 5-10-5 
 37 
 363 

 
 422179 
 13764 
 13783 
 CACCCGCCGGCTCTGCTCAT 
 3-14-3 
 43 
 363 

 
 422256 
 13764 
 13783 
 CACCCGCCGGCTCTGCTCAT 
 2-13-5 
 29 
 363 

 
 422112 
 13765 
 13784 
 CCACCCGCCGGCTCTGCTCA 
 5-10-5 
 61 
 364 

 
 422180 
 13765 
 13784 
 CCACCCGCCGGCTCTGCTCA 
 3-14-3 
 54 
 364 

 
 422257 
 13765 
 13784 
 CCACCCGCCGGCTCTGCTCA 
 2-13-5 
 65 
 364 

 
 422113 
 13766 
 13785 
 GCCACCCGCCGGCTCTGCTC 
 5-10-5 
 68 
 365 

 
 422181 
 13766 
 13785 
 GCCACCCGCCGGCTCTGCTC 
 3-14-3 
 66 
 365 

 
 422258 
 13766 
 13785 
 GCCACCCGCCGGCTCTGCTC 
 2-13-5 
 66 
 365 

 
 422114 
 13767 
 13786 
 CGCCACCCGCCGGCTCTGCT 
 5-10-5 
 50 
 366 

 
 422182 
 13767 
 13786 
 CGCCACCCGCCGGCTCTGCT 
 3-14-3 
 11 
 366 

 
 422259 
 13767 
 13786 
 CGCCACCCGCCGGCTCTGCT 
 2-13-5 
 61 
 366 

 
 422115 
 13768 
 13787 
 GCGCCACCCGCCGGCTCTGC 
 5-10-5 
 66 
 367 

 
 422183 
 13768 
 13787 
 GCGCCACCCGCCGGCTCTGC 
 3-14-3 
 79 
 367 

 
 422260 
 13768 
 13787 
 GCGCCACCCGCCGGCTCTGC 
 2-13-5 
 56 
 367 

 
 422116 
 13769 
 13788 
 TGCGCCACCCGCCGGCTCTG 
 5-10-5 
 52 
 368 

 
 422184 
 13769 
 13788 
 TGCGCCACCCGCCGGCTCTG 
 3-14-3 
 55 
 368 

 
 422261 
 13769 
 13788 
 TGCGCCACCCGCCGGCTCTG 
 2-13-5 
 47 
 368 

 
 416456 
 13770 
 13789 
 CTGCGCCACCCGCCGGCTCT 
 5-10-5 
 50 
 262 

 
 422185 
 13770 
 13789 
 CTGCGCCACCCGCCGGCTCT 
 3-14-3 
 48 
 262 

 
 422262 
 13770 
 13789 
 CTGCGCCACCCGCCGGCTCT 
 2-13-5 
 0 
 262 

 The chimeric antisense oligonucleotides in Table 11 were designed as 5-10-5 MOE, 3-14-3 MOE, and 2-13-5 MOE gapmers. The first listed gapmer in Table 11 is the original gapmer (see Table 7) from which the remaining gapmers were designed via microwalk and is designated by an asterisk (*). The 5-10-5 gapmers are 20 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of 10 2′-deoxynucleotides and is flanked on both sides (in the 5′ and 3′ directions) by wings comprising 5 nucleotides each. The 3-14-3 gapmers are 20 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of 14 2′-deoxynucleotides and is flanked on both sides (in the 5′ and 3′ directions) by wings comprising 3 nucleotides each. The 2-13-5 gapmers are 20 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of 13 2′-deoxynucleotides. The central gap is flanked on the 5′ end with a wing comprising 2 nucleotides and on the 3′ end with a wing comprising 5 nucleotides. For each of the motifs (5-10-5, 3-14-3, and 2-13-5), each nucleotide in the 5′ wing segment and each nucleotide in the 3′ wing segment has a 2′-MOE modification. The internucleoside linkages throughout each gapmer are phosphorothioate (P═S) linkages. All cytidine residues throughout each gapmer are 5-methylcytidines. “Target start site” indicates the 5′-most nucleotide to which the gapmer is targeted. “Target stop site” indicates the 3′-most nucleotide to which the gapmer is targeted. Each gapmer listed in Table 11 is targeted to SEQ ID NO: 1 (nucleotides 1255000 to 1273000 of GENBANK Accession No. NT — 027140.6).

 As shown in Table 11, all of the 5-10-5 MOE gapmers, 3-14-3 MOE gapmers, and 2-13-5 MOE gapmers targeted to the target region beginning at target start site 14707 and ending at the target stop site 14732 (i.e. nucleobases 14707-14732) of SEQ ID NO: 1 inhibited Factor 7 mRNA by at least 48%.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 14707-14732) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 40%, for example, ISIS numbers 416477, 407641, 422200, 422277, 422130, 422201, 422278, 422131, 422202, 422279, 422203, 422280, 422132, 422204, 422281, 422133, 422205, 422282, 407642, 422206, and 422283.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 14707-14732) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 50%, for example, ISIS numbers 416477, 407641, 422200, 422277, 422130, 422201, 422278, 422131, 422279, 422203, 422280, 422132, 422204, 422281, 422133, 422205, 407642, 422206, and 422283.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 14707-14732) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 60%, for example, ISIS numbers 416477, 407641, 422130, 422201, 422278, 422131, 422204, 422133, 422205, 407642, and 422206.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 14707-14732) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 70%, for example, ISIS numbers 416477, 422130, 422201, and 422204.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 11 

 
 Inhibition of human Factor 7 mRNA levels by chimeric 

 
 antisense oligonucleotides targeted to nucleobases 

 
 14707 to 14732 of SEQ ID NO: 1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Target 
 Target 
 
 
 
 SEQ 

 
 
 Start 
 Stop 
 
 
 % 
 ID 

 
 ISIS No. 
 Site 
 Site 
 Sequence (5′ to 3′) 
 Motif 
 Inhibition 
 NO 

 
 
 
 
 
 *416477 
 14710 
 14729 
 CAGCCTGAGGCCAGCAGATC 
 5-10-5 
 71 
 283 

 
 407641 
 14707 
 14726 
 CCTGAGGCCAGCAGATCACG 
 5-10-5 
 68 
 48 

 
 422200 
 14707 
 14726 
 CCTGAGGCCAGCAGATCACG 
 3-14-3 
 58 
 48 

 
 422277 
 14707 
 14726 
 CCTGAGGCCAGCAGATCACG 
 2-13-5 
 56 
 48 

 
 422130 
 14708 
 14727 
 GCCTGAGGCCAGCAGATCAC 
 5-10-5 
 79 
 369 

 
 422201 
 14708 
 14727 
 GCCTGAGGCCAGCAGATCAC 
 3-14-3 
 71 
 369 

 
 422278 
 14708 
 14727 
 GCCTGAGGCCAGCAGATCAC 
 2-13-5 
 64 
 369 

 
 422131 
 14709 
 14728 
 AGCCTGAGGCCAGCAGATCA 
 5-10-5 
 68 
 370 

 
 422202 
 14709 
 14728 
 AGCCTGAGGCCAGCAGATCA 
 3-14-3 
 49 
 370 

 
 422279 
 14709 
 14728 
 AGCCTGAGGCCAGCAGATCA 
 2-13-5 
 56 
 370 

 
 422203 
 14710 
 14729 
 CAGCCTGAGGCCAGCAGATC 
 3-14-3 
 52 
 283 

 
 422280 
 14710 
 14729 
 CAGCCTGAGGCCAGCAGATC 
 2-13-5 
 52 
 283 

 
 422132 
 14711 
 14730 
 GCAGCCTGAGGCCAGCAGAT 
 5-10-5 
 54 
 371 

 
 422204 
 14711 
 14730 
 GCAGCCTGAGGCCAGCAGAT 
 3-14-3 
 72 
 371 

 
 422281 
 14711 
 14730 
 GCAGCCTGAGGCCAGCAGAT 
 2-13-5 
 57 
 371 

 
 422133 
 14712 
 14731 
 AGCAGCCTGAGGCCAGCAGA 
 5-10-5 
 65 
 372 

 
 422205 
 14712 
 14731 
 AGCAGCCTGAGGCCAGCAGA 
 3-14-3 
 63 
 372 

 
 422282 
 14712 
 14731 
 AGCAGCCTGAGGCCAGCAGA 
 2-13-5 
 48 
 372 

 
 407642 
 14713 
 14732 
 CAGCAGCCTGAGGCCAGCAG 
 5-10-5 
 63 
 49 

 
 422206 
 14713 
 14732 
 CAGCAGCCTGAGGCCAGCAG 
 3-14-3 
 65 
 49 

 
 422283 
 14713 
 14732 
 CAGCAGCCTGAGGCCAGCAG 
 2-13-5 
 50 
 49 

 The chimeric antisense oligonucleotides in Table 12 were designed as 5-10-5 MOE, 3-14-3 MOE, and 2-13-5 MOE gapmers. The first listed gapmer in Table 12 is the original gapmer (see Table 7) from which the remaining gapmers were designed via microwalk and is designated by an asterisk (*). The 5-10-5 gapmers are 20 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of 10 2′-deoxynucleotides and is flanked on both sides (in the 5′ and 3′ directions) by wings comprising 5 nucleotides each. The 3-14-3 gapmers are 20 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of 14 2′-deoxynucleotides and is flanked on both sides (in the 5′ and 3′ directions) by wings comprising 3 nucleotides each. The 2-13-5 gapmers are 20 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of 13 2′-deoxynucleotides. The central gap is flanked on the 5′ end with a wing comprising 2 nucleotides and on the 3′ end with a wing comprising 5 nucleotides. For each of the motifs (5-10-5, 3-14-3, and 2-13-5), each nucleotide in the 5′ wing segment and each nucleotide in the 3′ wing segment has a 2′-MOE modification. The internucleoside linkages throughout each gapmer are phosphorothioate (P═S) linkages. All cytidine residues throughout each gapmer are 5-methylcytidines. “Target start site” indicates the 5′-most nucleotide to which the gapmer is targeted. “Target stop site” indicates the 3′-most nucleotide to which the gapmer is targeted. Each gapmer listed in Table 12 is targeted to SEQ ID NO: 1 (nucleotides 1255000 to 1273000 of GENBANK Accession No. NT — 027140.6).

 As shown in Table 12, all of the 5-10-5 MOE gapmers, 3-14-3 MOE gapmers, and 2-13-5 MOE gapmers targeted to the target region beginning at target start site 15098 and ending at the target stop site 15122 (i.e. nucleobases 15098-15122) of SEQ ID NO: 1 inhibited Factor 7 mRNA by at least 25%.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 15098-15122) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 20%, for example, ISIS numbers 407643, 422207, 422284, 422134, 422208, 422285, 422135, 422209, 422286, 422136, 422210, 422287, 422137, 422211, 422288, 416479, 422212, and 422289.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 15098-15122) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 30%, for example, ISIS numbers 407643, 422207, 422284, 422134, 422208, 422285, 422135, 422209, 422286, 422136, 422287, 422137, 422211, 422288, 416479, 422212, and 422289.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 15098-15122) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 40%, for example, ISIS numbers 407643, 422207, 422284, 422134, 422208, 422135, 422209, 422286, 422136, 422287, 422137, 422211, 422288, and 416479.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 15098-15122) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 50%, for example, ISIS numbers 407643, 422134, 422208, 422135, 422286, and 422136.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 15098-15122) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 60%, for example, ISIS numbers 407643 and 422134.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 12 

 
 Inhibition of human Factor 7 mRNA levels by chimeric 

 
 antisense oligonucleotides targeted to nucleobases 

 
 15098 to 15122 of SEQ ID NO: 1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Target 
 Target 

 
 
 Start 
 Stop 
 
 
 % 
 SEQ ID 

 
 Oligo ID 
 Site 
 Site 
 Sequence (5′ to 3′) 
 Motif 
 Inhibition 
 NO 

 
 
 
 
 
 *407643 
 15098 
 15117 
 CACACATGGAGTCAGCATCG 
 5-10-5 
 69 
 50 

 
 422207 
 15098 
 15117 
 CACACATGGAGTCAGCATCG 
 3-14-3 
 41 
 50 

 
 422284 
 15098 
 15117 
 CACACATGGAGTCAGCATCG 
 2-13-5 
 43 
 50 

 
 422134 
 15099 
 15118 
 GCACACATGGAGTCAGCATC 
 5-10-5 
 67 
 373 

 
 422208 
 15099 
 15118 
 GCACACATGGAGTCAGCATC 
 3-14-3 
 56 
 373 

 
 422285 
 15099 
 15118 
 GCACACATGGAGTCAGCATC 
 2-13-5 
 39 
 373 

 
 422135 
 15100 
 15119 
 AGCACACATGGAGTCAGCAT 
 5-10-5 
 53 
 374 

 
 422209 
 15100 
 15119 
 AGCACACATGGAGTCAGCAT 
 3-14-3 
 47 
 374 

 
 422286 
 15100 
 15119 
 AGCACACATGGAGTCAGCAT 
 2-13-5 
 53 
 374 

 
 422136 
 15101 
 15120 
 CAGCACACATGGAGTCAGCA 
 5-10-5 
 57 
 375 

 
 422210 
 15101 
 15120 
 CAGCACACATGGAGTCAGCA 
 3-14-3 
 25 
 375 

 
 422287 
 15101 
 15120 
 CAGCACACATGGAGTCAGCA 
 2-13-5 
 41 
 375 

 
 422137 
 15102 
 15121 
 ACAGCACACATGGAGTCAGC 
 5-10-5 
 45 
 376 

 
 422211 
 15102 
 15121 
 ACAGCACACATGGAGTCAGC 
 3-14-3 
 42 
 376 

 
 422288 
 15102 
 15121 
 ACAGCACACATGGAGTCAGC 
 2-13-5 
 44 
 376 

 
 416479 
 15103 
 15122 
 GACAGCACACATGGAGTCAG 
 5-10-5 
 47 
 285 

 
 422212 
 15103 
 15122 
 GACAGCACACATGGAGTCAG 
 3-14-3 
 30 
 285 

 
 422289 
 15103 
 15122 
 GACAGCACACATGGAGTCAG 
 2-13-5 
 34 
 285 

 The chimeric antisense oligonucleotides in Table 13 were designed as 5-10-5 MOE, 3-14-3 MOE, and 2-13-5 MOE gapmers. The first listed gapmer in Table 13 is the original gapmer (see Table 7) from which the remaining gapmers were designed via microwalk and is designated by an asterisk (*). The 5-10-5 gapmers are 20 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of 10 2′-deoxynucleotides and is flanked on both sides (in the 5′ and 3′ directions) by wings comprising 5 nucleotides each. The 3-14-3 gapmers are 20 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of 14 2′-deoxynucleotides and is flanked on both sides (in the 5′ and 3′ directions) by wings comprising 3 nucleotides each. The 2-13-5 gapmers are 20 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of 13 2′-deoxynucleotides. The central gap is flanked on the 5′ end with a wing comprising 2 nucleotides and on the 3′ end with a wing comprising 5 nucleotides. For each of the motifs (5-10-5, 3-14-3, and 2-13-5), each nucleotide in the 5′ wing segment and each nucleotide in the 3′ wing segment has a 2′-MOE modification. The internucleoside linkages throughout each gapmer are phosphorothioate (P═S) linkages. All cytidine residues throughout each gapmer are 5-methylcytidines. “Target start site” indicates the 5′-most nucleotide to which the gapmer is targeted. “Target stop site” indicates the 3′-most nucleotide to which the gapmer is targeted. Each gapmer listed in Table 13 is targeted to SEQ ID NO: 1 (nucleotides 1255000 to 1273000 of GENBANK Accession No. NT — 027140.6).

 As shown in Table 13, all of the 5-10-5 MOE gapmers, 3-14-3 MOE gapmers, and 2-13-5 MOE gapmers targeted to the target region beginning at target start site 15188 and ending at the target stop site 15211 (i.e. nucleobases 15188-15211) of SEQ ID NO: 1 inhibited Factor 7 mRNA by at least 41%.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 15188-15211) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 40%, for example, ISIS numbers 407935, 416482, 422149, 422226, 422085, 422150, 422227, 422086, 422151, 422228, 422152, 422229, 422087, 422153, and 422230.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 15188-15211) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 50%, for example, ISIS numbers 407935, 416482, 422149, 422085, 422150, 422227, 422086, 422151, 422228, 422152, 422229, 422087, 422153, and 422230.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 15188-15211) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 60%, for example, ISIS numbers 407935, 416482, 422149, 422085, 422150, 422227, 422086, 422151, 422228, 422152, 422229, 422087, 422153, and 422230.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 15188-15211) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 70%, for example, ISIS numbers 407935, 422085, 422150, 422086, 422228, 422152, 422229, and 422087.

 Certain gapmers within the target region (i.e. nucleobases 15188-15211) inhibited Factor 7 mRNA expression by at least 80%, for example, ISIS numbers 422086 and 422087.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 13 

 
 Inhibition of human Factor 7 mRNA levels by chimeric 

 
 antisense oligonucleotides targeted to nucleobases 

 
 15188 to 15211 of SEQ ID NO: 1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Target 
 Target 

 
 
 Start 
 Stop 
 
 
 % 
 SEQ 

 
 Oligo ID 
 Site 
 Site 
 Sequence (5′ to 3′) 
 Motif 
 Inhibition 
 ID NO 

 
 
 
 
 
 *407935 
 15191 
 15210 
 ATGCATGGTGATGCTTCTGA 
 5-10-5 
 79 
 123 

 
 416482 
 15188 
 15207 
 CATGGTGATGCTTCTGAATT 
 5-10-5 
 64 
 288 

 
 422149 
 15188 
 15207 
 CATGGTGATGCTTCTGAATT 
 3-14-3 
 61 
 288 

 
 422226 
 15188 
 15207 
 CATGGTGATGCTTCTGAATT 
 2-13-5 
 41 
 288 

 
 422085 
 15189 
 15208 
 GCATGGTGATGCTTCTGAAT 
 5-10-5 
 70 
 377 

 
 422150 
 15189 
 15208 
 GCATGGTGATGCTTCTGAAT 
 3-14-3 
 74 
 377 

 
 422227 
 15189 
 15208 
 GCATGGTGATGCTTCTGAAT 
 2-13-5 
 67 
 377 

 
 422086 
 15190 
 15209 
 TGCATGGTGATGCTTCTGAA 
 5-10-5 
 81 
 378 

 
 422151 
 15190 
 15209 
 TGCATGGTGATGCTTCTGAA 
 3-14-3 
 68 
 378 

 
 422228 
 15190 
 15209 
 TGCATGGTGATGCTTCTGAA 
 2-13-5 
 73 
 378 

 
 422152 
 15191 
 15210 
 ATGCATGGTGATGCTTCTGA 
 3-14-3 
 74 
 123 

 
 422229 
 15191 
 15210 
 ATGCATGGTGATGCTTCTGA 
 2-13-5 
 71 
 123 

 
 422087 
 15192 
 15211 
 CATGCATGGTGATGCTTCTG 
 5-10-5 
 83 
 379 

 
 422153 
 15192 
 15211 
 CATGCATGGTGATGCTTCTG 
 3-14-3 
 67 
 379 

 
 422230 
 15192 
 15211 
 CATGCATGGTGATGCTTCTG 
 2-13-5 
 65 
 379 

 Example 7

 Dose Response Antisense Inhibition of Human Factor 7 in HepB3 Cells

 Gapmers from Examples 5 and 6 (see Tables 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13), exhibiting in vitro inhibition of human Factor 7, were tested at various doses in HepB3 cells. Cells were plated at a density of 4,000 cells per well and transfected using lipofectin reagent with 3.125 nM, 6.25 nM, 12.5 nM, 25 nM, 50 nM, and 100 nM concentrations of antisense oligonucleotide, as specified in Table 14. After a treatment period of approximately 16 hours, RNA was isolated from the cells and Factor 7 mRNA levels were measured by quantitative real-time PCR. Human Factor 7 primer probe set RTS 2927 was used to measure mRNA levels. Factor 7 mRNA levels were adjusted according to total RNA content, as measured by RIBOGREEN®. Results are presented as percent inhibition of Factor 7, relative to untreated control cells. As illustrated in Table 14, Factor 7 mRNA levels were reduced in a dose-dependent manner.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 14 

 
 Dose-dependent antisense inhibition of human Factor 7 in HepB3 

 
 cells via transfection of oligonucleotides with lipofectin 

 
 
 
 
 
 ISIS 
 3.125 
 6.25 
 12.5 
 25 
 50 
 100 
 SEQ ID 

 
 No. 
 nM 
 M 
 nM 
 nM 
 nM 
 nM 
 NO 

 
 
 
 
 
 407935 
 19 
 39 
 58 
 70 
 85 
 87 
 123 

 
 407939 
 17 
 35 
 57 
 75 
 80 
 83 
 127 

 
 422086 
 8 
 26 
 46 
 65 
 83 
 90 
 378 

 
 422087 
 14 
 24 
 51 
 73 
 83 
 90 
 379 

 
 422096 
 17 
 23 
 43 
 60 
 68 
 82 
 348 

 
 422150 
 9 
 23 
 38 
 59 
 79 
 87 
 377 

 
 422152 
 18 
 29 
 47 
 67 
 83 
 89 
 123 

 
 422177 
 12 
 24 
 44 
 64 
 81 
 88 
 361 

 
 422183 
 28 
 37 
 56 
 78 
 84 
 88 
 367 

 
 422228 
 17 
 25 
 43 
 60 
 78 
 90 
 378 

 
 422229 
 21 
 32 
 53 
 72 
 86 
 92 
 123 

 
 422130 
 4 
 15 
 34 
 59 
 77 
 85 
 369 

 
 422140 
 18 
 35 
 49 
 64 
 74 
 74 
 331 

 
 422142 
 16 
 34 
 51 
 66 
 72 
 68 
 333 

 
 422215 
 13 
 30 
 54 
 65 
 84 
 82 
 331 

 
 422217 
 8 
 18 
 45 
 63 
 79 
 83 
 333 

 
 422252 
 18 
 17 
 45 
 61 
 77 
 87 
 261 

 
 422292 
 13 
 21 
 44 
 63 
 81 
 83 
 331 

 
 422294 
 9 
 21 
 32 
 61 
 77 
 84 
 333 

 
 422295 
 17 
 22 
 44 
 64 
 80 
 85 
 189 

 
 422296 
 21 
 27 
 39 
 67 
 78 
 82 
 334 

 The gapmers were also transfected via electroporation and their dose-dependent inhibition of human Factor 7 mRNA was measured. Cells were plated at a density of 20,000 cells per well and transfected via electroporation with 3.125 μM, 6.25 μM, 12.5 μM, 25 μM, 50 μM, and 100 μM concentrations of antisense oligonucleotide, as specified in Table 15. After a treatment period of approximately 16 hours, RNA was isolated from the cells and Factor 7 mRNA levels were measured by quantitative real-time PCR. Human Factor 7 primer probe set RTS 2927 was used to measure mRNA levels. Factor 7 mRNA levels were adjusted according to total RNA content, as measured by RIBOGREEN®. Results are presented as percent inhibition of Factor 7, relative to untreated control cells. As illustrated in Table 15, Factor 7 mRNA levels were reduced in a dose-dependent manner.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 15 

 
 Dose-dependent antisense inhibition of human Factor 7 in HepB3 

 
 cells via transfection of oligonucleotides with electroporation 

 
 
 
 
 
 ISIS 
 3.125 
 6.25 
 12.5 
 25 
 50 
 100 
 SEQ ID 

 
 No. 
 μM 
 μM 
 μM 
 μM 
 μM 
 μM 
 No. 

 
 
 
 
 
 407935 
 37 
 47 
 67 
 73 
 80 
 87 
 123 

 
 407939 
 18 
 28 
 42 
 56 
 68 
 82 
 127 

 
 422086 
 20 
 34 
 44 
 63 
 75 
 84 
 378 

 
 422087 
 22 
 26 
 48 
 57 
 72 
 80 
 379 

 
 422096 
 26 
 30 
 46 
 50 
 62 
 85 
 348 

 
 422150 
 17 
 20 
 40 
 54 
 68 
 83 
 377 

 
 422152 
 14 
 22 
 32 
 44 
 65 
 76 
 123 

 
 422177 
 3 
 10 
 29 
 21 
 31 
 63 
 361 

 
 422183 
 16 
 28 
 37 
 44 
 59 
 71 
 367 

 
 422228 
 18 
 33 
 40 
 47 
 71 
 83 
 378 

 
 422229 
 21 
 30 
 33 
 44 
 65 
 77 
 123 

 
 422130 
 28 
 29 
 59 
 61 
 73 
 86 
 369 

 
 422140 
 29 
 34 
 51 
 64 
 69 
 77 
 331 

 
 422142 
 26 
 47 
 63 
 67 
 77 
 78 
 333 

 
 422215 
 11 
 9 
 31 
 50 
 68 
 84 
 331 

 
 422217 
 15 
 19 
 29 
 55 
 61 
 83 
 333 

 
 422252 
 23 
 12 
 26 
 38 
 58 
 80 
 261 

 
 422292 
 36 
 25 
 47 
 59 
 75 
 86 
 331 

 
 422295 
 10 
 8 
 37 
 58 
 68 
 80 
 189 

 
 422296 
 62 
 40 
 56 
 56 
 82 
 84 
 334 

 Example 8

 Selection and Confirmation of Effective Dose-Dependent Antisense Inhibition of Human Factor 7 in HepB3 Cells

 Gapmers exhibiting in vitro inhibition of human Factor 7 in Example 7 were selected and tested at various doses in HepB3 cells. Cells were plated at a density of 20,000 cells per well and transfected via electroporation with 3.125 μM, 6.25 μM, 12.5 μM, 25 μM, 50 μM, and 100 μM concentrations of antisense oligonucleotide, as specified in Table 16. After a treatment period of approximately 16 hours, RNA was isolated from the cells and human Factor 7 mRNA levels were measured by quantitative real-time PCR. Human Factor 7 primer probe set RTS 2927 was used to measure mRNA levels. Factor 7 mRNA levels were adjusted according to total RNA content, as measured by RIBOGREEN®. Results are presented as percent inhibition of Factor 7, relative to untreated control cells. As illustrated in Table 16, Factor 7 mRNA levels were reduced in a dose-dependent manner.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 16 

 
 Dose-dependent antisense inhibition of human Factor 7 in HepB3 

 
 cells via transfection of oligonucleotides with electroporation 

 
 
 
 
 
 ISIS 
 3.125 
 6.25 
 12.5 
 25 
 50 
 100 
 SEQ ID 

 
 No. 
 μM 
 μM 
 μM 
 μM 
 μM 
 μM 
 NO: 

 
 
 
 
 
 407935 
 63 
 79 
 84 
 90 
 90 
 91 
 123 

 
 407939 
 35 
 60 
 60 
 73 
 81 
 83 
 127 

 
 422086 
 25 
 48 
 74 
 82 
 86 
 90 
 378 

 
 422087 
 19 
 38 
 66 
 75 
 80 
 87 
 379 

 
 422130 
 14 
 24 
 61 
 68 
 82 
 88 
 369 

 
 422142 
 34 
 47 
 62 
 67 
 65 
 65 
 333 

 
 422150 
 0 
 31 
 53 
 67 
 77 
 86 
 377 

 
 422183 
 2 
 3 
 24 
 50 
 64 
 71 
 367 

 
 422229 
 30 
 45 
 67 
 79 
 90 
 92 
 123 

 
 422292 
 31 
 40 
 68 
 75 
 82 
 83 
 331 

 
 422296 
 47 
 44 
 70 
 78 
 80 
 82 
 334 

 Example 9

 Antisense Inhibition of Human Factor 7 with Short (14-mer) Oligonucleotides

 Short antisense oligonucleotides (shortmers) were designed to target a Factor 7 nucleic acid. The shortmers in Table 17 were designed as 2-10-2 MOE gapmers. The gapmers are 14 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of 10 2′-deoxynucleotides and is flanked on both sides (in the 5′ and 3′ directions) by wings comprising 2 nucleotides each. Each nucleotide in the 5′ wing segment and each nucleotide in the 3′ wing segment has a 2′-MOE modification. The internucleoside linkages throughout each gapmer are phosphorothioate (P═S) linkages. All cytidine residues throughout each gapmer are 5-methylcytidines.

 Shortmers were evaluated for their ability to reduce human Factor 7 mRNA in HepB3 cells and compared with one 5-10-5 chimeric oligonucleotide from Table 16, ISIS 407939. HepB3 cells at a density of 20,000 cells per well in a 96-well plate were transfected using electroporation with 1,000 nM of antisense oligonucleotide. After a treatment period of approximately 24 hours, RNA was isolated from the cells and Factor 7 mRNA levels were measured by real-time RT-PCR, as described herein. Factor 7 mRNA levels were adjusted according to total RNA content as measured by RIBOGREEN®. Results are presented in Table 17 as percent inhibition of Factor 7 mRNA, relative to untreated control cells. ISIS 407939 is the first oligonucleotide in Table 17 to which the shortmers were compared, and is marked by an asterisk (*).

 Each gapmer listed in Table 17 is targeted to human gene sequences, SEQ ID NO: 1 (nucleotides 1255000 to 1273000 of GENBANK Accession No. NT — 027140.6) or SEQ ID NO: 2 (GENBANK Accession No. NM — 019616.2). “Target start site” indicates the 5′-most nucleotide to which the gapmer is targeted in the human gene sequence. “Target stop site” indicates the 3′-most nucleotide to which the gapmer is targeted in the human gene sequence.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 17 

 
 Inhibition of human Factor 7 mRNA levels by chimeric 

 
 antisense oligonucleotides having 2-10-2 MOE wings 

 
 and deoxy gap targeted to SEQ ID NO: 1 or SEQ ID NO: 2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Human 
 Human 
 Human 

 
 
 Target 
 Target 
 Target 

 
 ISIS 
 SEQ ID 
 Start 
 Stop 
 
 
 SEQ ID 

 
 No. 
 NO: 
 Site 
 Site 
 Sequence (5′ to 3′) 
 % inhibition 
 NO 

 
 
 
 
 
 *407939 
 1 
 15255 
 15274 
 TGCAGCCCGGCACCCAGCGA 
 81 
 127 

 
 435758 
 1 
 610 
 623 
 CCCTGAGCTGGGCA 
 4 
 380 

 
 435759 
 1 
 657 
 670 
 GAGCCACAGAGCCT 
 11 
 381 

 
 435760 
 1 
 744 
 757 
 TCTTGGGTGTGGAT 
 17 
 382 

 
 435761 
 1 
 796 
 809 
 CAGATGAAAACTTG 
 5 
 383 

 
 435762 
 1 
 885 
 898 
 CAGGTGTTAAGGTG 
 0 
 384 

 
 435763 
 1 
 945 
 958 
 AGGAGAAAGGTCAG 
 2 
 385 

 
 435764 
 1 
 1018 
 1031 
 TGAGAGCTGCACCT 
 8 
 386 

 
 435765 
 1 
 1092 
 1105 
 CAAAGTTCTCTGCC 
 1 
 387 

 
 435634 
 1 
 1147 
 1160 
 TGAAATCTCTGCAG 
 5 
 388 

 
 435635 
 1 
 1152 
 1165 
 CATGATGAAATCTC 
 0 
 389 

 
 435636 
 1 
 1157 
 1170 
 GAGACCATGATGAA 
 13 
 390 

 
 435637 
 1 
 1196 
 1209 
 TGAAGCCCAAGCAG 
 11 
 391 

 
 435638 
 1 
 1201 
 1214 
 AGCCCTGAAGCCCA 
 55 
 392 

 
 435766 
 1 
 1217 
 1230 
 GCACCTGCAGCCAG 
 51 
 393 

 
 435767 
 1 
 1248 
 1261 
 CACCAAGTTTATGG 
 0 
 394 

 
 435768 
 1 
 1384 
 1397 
 GCCTGGATGCTGGT 
 75 
 395 

 
 435769 
 1 
 1442 
 1455 
 TTCTTTGAAAAATA 
 0 
 396 

 
 435770 
 1 
 1529 
 1542 
 CTCTGAGAGGCCCC 
 81 
 397 

 
 435771 
 1 
 2130 
 2143 
 GTCATAAGGCCATG 
 13 
 398 

 
 435772 
 1 
 2233 
 2246 
 GCAGTCCCTGCTCA 
 42 
 399 

 
 435773 
 1 
 2348 
 2361 
 CAGGGAACACCCTC 
 57 
 400 

 
 435774 
 1 
 2390 
 2403 
 GTCCCAGGGAAGGC 
 17 
 401 

 
 435775 
 1 
 2439 
 2452 
 TCTGGAAGGAACAG 
 25 
 402 

 
 435777 
 1 
 4713 
 4726 
 CTGAGGATGCAGGC 
 53 
 403 

 
 435778 
 1 
 4817 
 4830 
 GCTACTGGGCCACG 
 49 
 404 

 
 435779 
 1 
 4847 
 4860 
 TGAGCGCGGAAGAA 
 50 
 405 

 
 435780 
 1 
 4945 
 4958 
 GGAGGGACGACCTT 
 28 
 406 

 
 435781 
 1 
 5124 
 5137 
 ACCACGCGGTGGTG 
 0 
 407 

 
 435782 
 1 
 5209 
 5222 
 CGTGCGCTCAGCTC 
 36 
 408 

 
 435783 
 1 
 6396 
 6409 
 AAACCGGCATGCGC 
 49 
 409 

 
 435784 
 1 
 6433 
 6446 
 CCTAAGTGTGCTTT 
 17 
 410 

 
 435785 
 1 
 6540 
 6553 
 AGCTTCTCACCACG 
 46 
 411 

 
 435787 
 1 
 8481 
 8494 
 GAGTGTGAGGCTTC 
 34 
 412 

 
 435789 
 1 
 8518 
 8531 
 CATGTTAGCCTTTG 
 3 
 413 

 
 435790 
 1 
 8548 
 8561 
 ATGACCATCCTCAA 
 1 
 414 

 
 435791 
 1 
 8590 
 8603 
 ATGAGAAATGCTTT 
 0 
 415 

 
 435792 
 1 
 8651 
 8664 
 TGCTGAAGAAACTG 
 9 
 416 

 
 435793 
 1 
 8711 
 8724 
 TGCAGTAGCAGATG 
 27 
 417 

 
 435794 
 1 
 8776 
 8789 
 GAGGTACACAGGCT 
 26 
 418 

 
 435795 
 1 
 8828 
 8841 
 ACACCCGAGGTTCA 
 66 
 419 

 
 435796 
 1 
 8858 
 8871 
 TGACCACACATTTC 
 30 
 420 

 
 435797 
 1 
 8895 
 8908 
 AATCTTGGCCCCTC 
 16 
 421 

 
 435798 
 1 
 8933 
 8946 
 AGCCAGACTTTCCT 
 54 
 422 

 
 435639 
 1 
 9072 
 9085 
 TCCAGAACAGCTTC 
 31 
 423 

 
 435640 
 1 
 9081 
 9094 
 TGTAAGAAATCCAG 
 2 
 424 

 
 435799 
 1 
 9165 
 9178 
 CTGGTCCCCATCTG 
 33 
 425 

 
 435642 
 1 
 9168 
 9181 
 ACACTGGTCCCCAT 
 60 
 426 

 
 435478 
 1 
 9173 
 9186 
 GAGGCACACTGGTC 
 43 
 427 

 
 435643 
 1 
 9204 
 9217 
 CTTGCAGGAGCCCC 
 51 
 428 

 
 435644 
 1 
 9209 
 9222 
 TGGTCCTTGCAGGA 
 30 
 429 

 
 435645 
 1 
 9214 
 9227 
 GGAGCTGGTCCTTG 
 44 
 430 

 
 435646 
 1 
 9221 
 9234 
 TAGGACTGGAGCTG 
 13 
 431 

 
 435647 
 1 
 9226 
 9239 
 AGATATAGGACTGG 
 0 
 432 

 
 435648 
 1 
 9231 
 9244 
 GAAGCAGATATAGG 
 0 
 433 

 
 435649 
 1 
 9236 
 9249 
 AGGCAGAAGCAGAT 
 21 
 434 

 
 435650 
 1 
 9255 
 9268 
 CCGGCCCTCGAAGG 
 6 
 435 

 
 435651 
 1 
 9261 
 9274 
 ACAGTTCCGGCCCT 
 71 
 436 

 
 435800 
 1 
 9289 
 9302 
 GGACCCAAAGTGGG 
 0 
 437 

 
 435801 
 1 
 9339 
 9352 
 CGGTTGGCCAGGCC 
 38 
 438 

 
 435802 
 1 
 9420 
 9433 
 GTCACCTAGACCAA 
 61 
 439 

 
 435803 
 1 
 9517 
 9530 
 GAGAATTGCCCAGG 
 0 
 440 

 
 435804 
 1 
 9549 
 9562 
 CAGGGACTCTCAGC 
 26 
 441 

 
 435805 
 1 
 9716 
 9729 
 TGAATTACTGAACC 
 0 
 442 

 
 435806 
 1 
 9846 
 9859 
 TGACCCCACAGGGA 
 7 
 443 

 
 435807 
 1 
 9902 
 9915 
 CAGTACTTCCCACG 
 35 
 444 

 
 435808 
 1 
 9939 
 9952 
 CTCTGGACACCGGG 
 66 
 445 

 
 435809 
 1 
 10062 
 10075 
 CTGACAATGTGATG 
 5 
 446 

 
 435810 
 1 
 10114 
 10127 
 CTGAGGGAATGTTG 
 1 
 447 

 
 435811 
 1 
 10203 
 10216 
 GTGGTCAAGGATGA 
 27 
 448 

 
 435812 
 1 
 10355 
 10368 
 GCTGAGCAGAGATC 
 35 
 449 

 
 435813 
 1 
 10385 
 10398 
 GGATGCACACCAGG 
 55 
 450 

 
 435814 
 1 
 10584 
 10597 
 TGACGAGAGGACCA 
 31 
 451 

 
 435815 
 1 
 10677 
 10690 
 CTCTTCCGAGCAGC 
 59 
 452 

 
 435816 
 1 
 10803 
 10816 
 TCCAAAGGACAAGG 
 4 
 453 

 
 435817 
 1 
 10835 
 10848 
 CTGAGCTTGGCACC 
 39 
 454 

 
 435818 
 1 
 10978 
 10991 
 GTCATCCTTGTCTG 
 43 
 455 

 
 435652 
 1 
 10981 
 10994 
 CTGGTCATCCTTGT 
 48 
 456 

 
 435653 
 1 
 10986 
 10999 
 ATCAGCTGGTCATC 
 32 
 457 

 
 435654 
 1 
 11005 
 11018 
 GCCGTTCTCGTTCA 
 71 
 458 

 
 435655 
 1 
 11011 
 11024 
 ACAGCCGCCGTTCT 
 49 
 459 

 
 435656 
 1 
 11018 
 11031 
 ACTGCTCACAGCCG 
 58 
 460 

 
 435657 
 1 
 11023 
 11036 
 GCAGTACTGCTCAC 
 69 
 461 

 
 435658 
 1 
 11028 
 11041 
 TCACTGCAGTACTG 
 60 
 462 

 
 435659 
 1 
 11070 
 11083 
 TACCCCTCGTGGCA 
 18 
 463 

 
 435660 
 1 
 11088 
 11101 
 CCGTCTGCCAGCAG 
 58 
 464 

 
 435661 
 1 
 11095 
 11108 
 GGACACCCCGTCTG 
 18 
 465 

 
 435819 
 1 
 11181 
 11194 
 TTTGTCCAGTAAGA 
 1 
 466 

 
 435820 
 1 
 11294 
 11307 
 CATCCTAGTCACTG 
 19 
 467 

 
 435821 
 1 
 11454 
 11467 
 AGTCAGTACAGACA 
 0 
 468 

 
 435822 
 1 
 11494 
 11507 
 CCAGGAGCCTTTAC 
 37 
 469 

 
 435823 
 1 
 11622 
 11635 
 TGAGTCCCAGGCTG 
 41 
 470 

 
 435824 
 1 
 11724 
 11737 
 CCTAAAGATGAATC 
 21 
 471 

 
 435776 
 1 
 11732 
 11745 
 GGGACACTCACACT 
 51 
 472 

 
 435825 
 1 
 11830 
 11843 
 CTGGTTTTGGAGGA 
 0 
 473 

 
 435826 
 1 
 11861 
 11874 
 AAGTGGCTGGCTGA 
 27 
 474 

 
 435827 
 1 
 12057 
 12070 
 TCAGAAAGATGCAG 
 5 
 475 

 
 435662 
 1 
 12084 
 12097 
 TGGATATTCAACTG 
 19 
 476 

 
 435663 
 1 
 12089 
 12102 
 CCACATGGATATTC 
 50 
 477 

 
 435664 
 1 
 12094 
 12107 
 TTTTTCCACATGGA 
 4 
 478 

 
 435665 
 1 
 12099 
 12112 
 AGGTATTTTTCCAC 
 0 
 479 

 
 435666 
 1 
 12128 
 12141 
 GGTTTGCTGGCATT 
 71 
 480 

 
 435667 
 1 
 12141 
 12154 
 AATTCGGCCTTGGG 
 16 
 481 

 
 435479 
 1 
 12173 
 12186 
 CACTCCCCTTTGGG 
 9 
 482 

 
 435668 
 1 
 12182 
 12195 
 TGCCATGGACACTC 
 75 
 483 

 
 435828 
 1 
 12277 
 12290 
 GACCTGCCCATTTT 
 0 
 484 

 
 435829 
 1 
 12396 
 12409 
 GGGTAGACCCTCAG 
 18 
 485 

 
 435830 
 1 
 12493 
 12506 
 TGATTTTGCAAAGA 
 0 
 486 

 
 435831 
 1 
 12523 
 12536 
 GATCTTCACATAGC 
 51 
 487 

 
 435832 
 1 
 12632 
 12645 
 TGCTCAGACCTGGC 
 70 
 488 

 
 435671 
 1 
 12796 
 12809 
 TCACCAACAACAGG 
 28 
 489 

 
 435672 
 1 
 12842 
 12855 
 ACCCAGATGGTGTT 
 12 
 490 

 
 435673 
 1 
 12847 
 12860 
 AGACCACCCAGATG 
 34 
 491 

 
 435674 
 1 
 12863 
 12876 
 AAACAGTGGGCCGC 
 34 
 492 

 
 435675 
 1 
 12868 
 12881 
 TGTCGAAACAGTGG 
 24 
 493 

 
 435676 
 1 
 12873 
 12886 
 GATTTTGTCGAAAC 
 11 
 494 

 
 435833 
 1 
 13133 
 13146 
 AGACACTTGAGAGC 
 24 
 495 

 
 435834 
 1 
 13165 
 13178 
 TGACAGCACGAAGC 
 20 
 496 

 
 435835 
 1 
 13264 
 13277 
 TTATTTGGGCATGG 
 7 
 497 

 
 435836 
 1 
 13637 
 13650 
 CTAGGTCTGCAGGG 
 41 
 498 

 
 435837 
 1 
 13725 
 13738 
 CTCGCCTGGAAGGA 
 37 
 499 

 
 435678 
 1 
 13733 
 13746 
 AGGTCGTGCTCGCC 
 67 
 500 

 
 435679 
 1 
 13738 
 13751 
 CGCTGAGGTCGTGC 
 62 
 501 

 
 435680 
 1 
 13743 
 13756 
 GTGCTCGCTGAGGT 
 52 
 502 

 
 435681 
 1 
 13781 
 13794 
 ATGACCTGCGCCAC 
 40 
 503 

 
 435682 
 1 
 13786 
 13799 
 GGATGATGACCTGC 
 36 
 504 

 
 435683 
 1 
 13823 
 13836 
 ATGTCGTGGTTGGT 
 3 
 505 

 
 435684 
 1 
 13832 
 13845 
 AGCAGCGCGATGTC 
 56 
 506 

 
 435685 
 1 
 13856 
 13869 
 AGGACCACGGGCTG 
 40 
 507 

 
 435686 
 1 
 13861 
 13874 
 CAGTGAGGACCACG 
 31 
 508 

 
 435687 
 1 
 13866 
 13879 
 ATGGTCAGTGAGGA 
 7 
 509 

 
 435688 
 1 
 13871 
 13884 
 ACCACATGGTCAGT 
 0 
 510 

 
 435689 
 1 
 13890 
 13903 
 TTCGGGCAGGCAGA 
 23 
 511 

 
 435690 
 1 
 13895 
 13908 
 GTCCGTTCGGGCAG 
 55 
 512 

 
 435691 
 1 
 13946 
 13959 
 CAGCCGCTGACCAA 
 25 
 513 

 
 435692 
 1 
 13964 
 13977 
 CGGTCCAGCAGCTG 
 32 
 514 

 
 435480 
 1 
 14016 
 14029 
 GGTCATCAGCCGGG 
 53 
 515 

 
 435481 
 1 
 14017 
 14030 
 GGGTCATCAGCCGG 
 50 
 516 

 
 435482 
 1 
 14018 
 14031 
 TGGGTCATCAGCCG 
 62 
 517 

 
 435483 
 1 
 14019 
 14032 
 CTGGGTCATCAGCC 
 82 
 518 

 
 435484 
 1 
 14020 
 14033 
 CCTGGGTCATCAGC 
 45 
 519 

 
 435485 
 1 
 14021 
 14034 
 TCCTGGGTCATCAG 
 34 
 520 

 
 435486 
 1 
 14022 
 14035 
 GTCCTGGGTCATCA 
 64 
 521 

 
 435487 
 1 
 14023 
 14036 
 AGTCCTGGGTCATC 
 36 
 522 

 
 435488 
 1 
 14024 
 14037 
 CAGTCCTGGGTCAT 
 17 
 523 

 
 435693 
 1 
 14026 
 14039 
 GGCAGTCCTGGGTC 
 43 
 524 

 
 435694 
 1 
 14031 
 14044 
 CTGCAGGCAGTCCT 
 39 
 525 

 
 435695 
 1 
 14036 
 14049 
 GACTGCTGCAGGCA 
 48 
 526 

 
 435696 
 1 
 14081 
 14094 
 CAGAACATGTACTC 
 10 
 527 

 
 435697 
 1 
 14092 
 14105 
 AGTAGCCGGCACAG 
 53 
 528 

 
 435698 
 1 
 14119 
 14132 
 CCTTGCAGGAGTCC 
 61 
 529 

 
 435551 
 1 
 14144 
 14157 
 GTGGCATGTGGGCC 
 
 530 

 
 435699 
 1 
 14190 
 14203 
 GCCCCAGCTGACGA 
 48 
 531 

 
 435489 
 1 
 14231 
 14244 
 CTGGTGTACACCCC 
 72 
 532 

 
 435490 
 1 
 14232 
 14245 
 CCTGGTGTACACCC 
 49 
 533 

 
 435491 
 1 
 14233 
 14246 
 CCCTGGTGTACACC 
 61 
 534 

 
 435492 
 1 
 14234 
 14247 
 ACCCTGGTGTACAC 
 45 
 535 

 
 435493 
 1 
 14235 
 14248 
 GACCCTGGTGTACA 
 58 
 536 

 
 435494 
 1 
 14236 
 14249 
 AGACCCTGGTGTAC 
 47 
 537 

 
 435495 
 1 
 14237 
 14250 
 GAGACCCTGGTGTA 
 27 
 538 

 
 435496 
 1 
 14238 
 14251 
 GGAGACCCTGGTGT 
 47 
 539 

 
 435497 
 1 
 14239 
 14252 
 GGGAGACCCTGGTG 
 27 
 540 

 
 435498 
 1 
 14240 
 14253 
 TGGGAGACCCTGGT 
 37 
 541 

 
 435499 
 1 
 14241 
 14254 
 CTGGGAGACCCTGG 
 59 
 542 

 
 435500 
 1 
 14242 
 14255 
 ACTGGGAGACCCTG 
 49 
 543 

 
 435501 
 1 
 14243 
 14256 
 TACTGGGAGACCCT 
 51 
 544 

 
 435502 
 1 
 14244 
 14257 
 GTACTGGGAGACCC 
 69 
 545 

 
 435503 
 1 
 14245 
 14258 
 TGTACTGGGAGACC 
 17 
 546 

 
 435504 
 1 
 14246 
 14259 
 ATGTACTGGGAGAC 
 8 
 547 

 
 435714 
 1 
 14251 
 14264 
 ACTCGATGTACTGG 
 3 
 548 

 
 435715 
 1 
 14256 
 14269 
 CAGCCACTCGATGT 
 35 
 549 

 
 435716 
 1 
 14261 
 14274 
 TTTTGCAGCCACTC 
 22 
 550 

 
 435717 
 1 
 14266 
 14279 
 TGAGCTTTTGCAGC 
 0 
 551 

 
 435718 
 1 
 14303 
 14316 
 GCTCGCAGGAGGAC 
 26 
 552 

 
 435719 
 1 
 14354 
 14367 
 CAGCCTTGGCTTTC 
 50 
 553 

 
 435720 
 1 
 14662 
 14675 
 AGGCTCAGCTGGGC 
 16 
 554 

 
 435721 
 1 
 14667 
 14680 
 TAAGGAGGCTCAGC 
 12 
 555 

 
 435722 
 1 
 14687 
 14700 
 TGGGCTTGGCTGAA 
 50 
 556 

 
 435723 
 1 
 14707 
 14720 
 GCCAGCAGATCACG 
 68 
 557 

 
 435724 
 1 
 14712 
 14725 
 CTGAGGCCAGCAGA 
 52 
 558 

 
 435725 
 1 
 14717 
 14730 
 GCAGCCTGAGGCCA 
 79 
 559 

 
 435726 
 1 
 14734 
 14747 
 GCAATGAAGGCAGA 
 26 
 560 

 
 435727 
 1 
 15098 
 15111 
 TGGAGTCAGCATCG 
 73 
 561 

 
 435728 
 1 
 15103 
 15116 
 ACACATGGAGTCAG 
 16 
 562 

 
 435729 
 1 
 15108 
 15121 
 ACAGCACACATGGA 
 30 
 563 

 
 435730 
 1 
 15128 
 15141 
 TAAACAACCGCCTT 
 49 
 564 

 
 435731 
 1 
 15136 
 15149 
 GTGAGAGCTAAACA 
 11 
 565 

 
 435732 
 1 
 15141 
 15154 
 GAAAAGTGAGAGCT 
 0 
 566 

 
 435733 
 1 
 15181 
 15194 
 CTGAATTGTCTGAA 
 5 
 567 

 
 435734 
 1 
 15187 
 15200 
 ATGCTTCTGAATTG 
 16 
 568 

 
 435735 
 1 
 15192 
 15205 
 TGGTGATGCTTCTG 
 81 
 569 

 
 435736 
 1 
 15197 
 15210 
 ATGCATGGTGATGC 
 50 
 570 

 
 435737 
 1 
 15262 
 15275 
 GTGCAGCCCGGCAC 
 70 
 571 

 
 435738 
 1 
 15388 
 15401 
 CAGAGGATGAGCAC 
 16 
 572 

 
 435739 
 1 
 15393 
 15406 
 CATCTCAGAGGATG 
 5 
 573 

 
 435740 
 1 
 15430 
 15443 
 TCATTTCAGTGATG 
 0 
 574 

 
 435741 
 1 
 15435 
 15448 
 AGGGTTCATTTCAG 
 6 
 575 

 
 435742 
 1 
 15440 
 15453 
 ATGTGAGGGTTCAT 
 11 
 576 

 
 435743 
 1 
 15487 
 15500 
 GCCTCAAACATCTA 
 40 
 577 

 
 435744 
 1 
 15492 
 15505 
 CTACAGCCTCAAAC 
 19 
 578 

 
 435745 
 1 
 15497 
 15510 
 GGGAGCTACAGCCT 
 0 
 579 

 
 435746 
 1 
 15546 
 15559 
 ATTGACAAGGGCTG 
 32 
 580 

 
 435747 
 1 
 15551 
 15564 
 ATATCATTGACAAG 
 0 
 581 

 
 435748 
 1 
 15569 
 15582 
 TCCCAGGGTCTCTG 
 18 
 582 

 
 435749 
 1 
 15630 
 15643 
 CAGCCAGGGCCTGG 
 29 
 583 

 
 435750 
 1 
 15635 
 15648 
 CACTGCAGCCAGGG 
 14 
 584 

 
 435751 
 1 
 15650 
 15663 
 CTTGCCAGGTCCTC 
 28 
 585 

 
 435752 
 1 
 15655 
 15668 
 TGCAGCTTGCCAGG 
 12 
 586 

 
 435753 
 1 
 15660 
 15673 
 AAGAGTGCAGCTTG 
 9 
 587 

 
 435754 
 1 
 15665 
 15678 
 TCAGCAAGAGTGCA 
 16 
 588 

 
 435755 
 1 
 15670 
 15683 
 GGGACTCAGCAAGA 
 0 
 589 

 
 435756 
 1 
 15805 
 15818 
 TGCCCAGGACGGCC 
 20 
 590 

 
 435757 
 1 
 15895 
 15908 
 TGCCTGAGTGCCCC 
 51 
 591 

 
 435838 
 1 
 16009 
 16022 
 TCCATGGACACTAA 
 29 
 592 

 
 435839 
 1 
 16051 
 16064 
 GGTCAGCTGGTCTG 
 14 
 593 

 
 435840 
 1 
 16163 
 16176 
 GGGCCCGCCACTGG 
 0 
 594 

 
 435841 
 1 
 16205 
 16218 
 CTCGGACAAAAGAG 
 1 
 595 

 
 435842 
 1 
 16596 
 16609 
 ATTTCCCATTGGCA 
 0 
 596 

 
 435843 
 1 
 16730 
 16743 
 GCTGGAGCTGAGCC 
 0 
 597 

 
 435844 
 1 
 16773 
 16786 
 TGGCCAGTGGCCTC 
 30 
 598 

 
 435845 
 1 
 16872 
 16885 
 GCTCATGGCAGACA 
 21 
 599 

 
 435846 
 1 
 16910 
 16923 
 TGGAGAGACCAATG 
 7 
 600 

 
 435847 
 1 
 17139 
 17152 
 TGGTGTGCACACAT 
 36 
 601 

 
 435848 
 1 
 17207 
 17220 
 TGGCCACTGCCTCA 
 32 
 602 

 
 435849 
 1 
 17250 
 17263 
 TGCCGTAGTGGCCG 
 31 
 603 

 
 435850 
 1 
 17280 
 17293 
 CTTGGCCAGTGTGG 
 15 
 604 

 
 435851 
 1 
 17588 
 17601 
 ACAGGCCAGGCTGG 
 0 
 605 

 
 435786 
 1 
 48751 
 48764 
 AGGTGACCCGTGAG 
 68 
 606 

 
 435788 
 1 
 127793 
 127806 
 CCTGTGAGTGTGAG 
 20 
 607 

 
 435641 
 2 
 297 
 310 
 GGTCCCCATCACTG 
 51 
 608 

 
 435669 
 2 
 657 
 670 
 GGACCTGCCATGGA 
 36 
 609 

 
 435670 
 2 
 662 
 675 
 CAACAGGACCTGCC 
 47 
 610 

 
 435677 
 2 
 785 
 798 
 GTGCTCGCCCAGCA 
 60 
 611 

 Example 10

 Antisense Inhibition of Murine Factor 7 In Vitro

 Chimeric antisense oligonucleotides were designed as 5-10-5 MOE wings and deoxy gap were designed to target murine Factor 7 (nucleotides 10024000 to 10037000 of GENBANK Accession No. NT — 039455.6; incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO: 160). The gapmers are 20 nucleotides in length, wherein the central gap segment is comprised of 10 2′-deoxynucleotides and is flanked on both sides (in the 5′ and 3′ directions) by wings comprising 5 nucleotides each. Each nucleotide in each wing segment has a 2′-MOE modification. The internucleoside linkages throughout each gapmer are phosphorothioate (P═S) linkages. All cytidine residues throughout each gapmer are 5′methylcytidines. The antisense oligonucleotides were evaluated for their ability to reduce murine Factor 7 mRNA in primary mouse hepatocytes. The antisense oligonucleotides were evaluated for their ability to reduce Factor 7 mRNA in primary mouse hepatocytes.

 Primary mouse hepatocytes were treated with 6.25 nM, 12.5 nM, 25 nM, 50 nM, 100 nM, and 200 nM of antisense oligonucleotides for a period of approximately 24 hours. RNA was isolated from the cells and Factor 7 mRNA levels were measured by quantitative real-time PCR, as described herein. Murine Factor 7 primer probe set RTS 2855 (forward sequence AATGAGGAACAGTGCTCCTTTGA, SEQ ID NO: 612; reverse sequence TGTAAACAATCCAGAACTGCTTGGT, SEQ ID NO: 613; probe sequence CCCGGGAGATCTTCAAGAGCCCX, SEQ ID NO: 614) was used to measure mRNA levels. Factor 7 mRNA levels were adjusted according to total RNA content as measured by RIBOGREEN®. Certain murine antisense oligonucleotides reduced Factor 7 mRNA levels in a dose-dependent manner.

 Example 11

 Antisense Inhibition of Murine Factor 7 In Vivo

 Four antisense oligonucleotides showing significant dose-dependent inhibition from the in vitro study (see Example 10) were evaluated for their ability to reduce Factor 7 mRNA in vivo. The antisense oligonucleotides are targeted to murine Factor 7 mRNA (nucleotides 10024000 to 10037000 of GENBANK Accession No. NT — 039455.6; SEQ ID NO: 160). Target start sites for the four of the antisense oligonucleotides are as follows: 11326, 11336, 11613, and 11766.

 Treatment

 BALB/c mice were treated with ISIS 403102 (CCATAGAACAGCTTCACAGG, target site 11336, incorporated herein as SEQ ID NO: 161). BALB/c mice were injected subcutaneously with 5 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, 25 mg/kg, or 50 mg/kg of ISIS 403102 twice a week for 3 weeks. A control group of mice was injected subcutaneously with PBS twice a week for 3 weeks. After the treatment period, whole liver was collected for RNA and protein analysis, and plasma was collected for clotting analysis (PT/aPTT).

 RNA Analysis

 RNA was extracted from liver tissue for real-time RT-PCR analysis of Factor 7. As shown in Table 18, ISIS 403102 achieved a dose-dependent reduction of murine Factor 7 over the PBS control. Results are presented as percent inhibition of Factor 7, relative to the control.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 18 

 
 Dose-dependent antisense inhibition of murine 

 
 Factor 7 mRNA in BALB/c mice 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 mg/kg 
 % inhibition 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 
 64 

 
 
 10 
 84 

 
 
 25 
 96 

 
 
 50 
 99 

Protein Analysis

 Plasma Factor 7 protein was measured using a Factor 7 chromogenic assay (Hyphen BioMed). As shown in Table 19, ISIS 403102 achieved a dose-dependent reduction of murine Factor 7 protein over the PBS control. Results are presented as percent inhibition of Factor 7, relative to control.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 19 

 
 Dose-dependent antisense inhibition of 

 
 murine Factor 7 protein in BALB/c mice 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 mg/kg 
 % inhibition 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 
 71 

 
 
 10 
 88 

 
 
 25 
 99 

 
 
 50 
 99 

Clotting Analysis

 Prothrombin Time (PT) and Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time (aPTT) were measured using platelet poor plasma (PPP) from mice treated with ISIS 403102. PT and aPTT values provided in Table 20 are reported as International Normalized Ratio (INR) values. INR values for PT and aPTT were determined by dividing the PT or aPTT value for the experimental group by the PT or aPTT for the PBS treated group. This ratio was then raised to the power of the International Sensitivity Index (ISI) of the tissue factor used. As shown in Table 20, PT was significantly prolonged in mice treated with ISIS 403102 compared to the control. aPTT was slightly prolonged in mice treated with ISIS 403102. These data suggest that ISIS 403102 has a greater affect on the extrinsic pathway of blood coagulation than the intrinsic pathway of blood coagulation.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 20 

 
 Effect of ISIS 403102 on PT and aPTT in BALB/c mice 

 
 
 
 
 
 mg/kg 
 PT INR 
 aPTT INR 

 
 
 
 
 
 5 
 1.09 
 1.05 

 
 10 
 1.33 
 1.04 

 
 25 
 2.33 
 1.09 

 
 50 
 4.37 
 1.16 

 Example 12

 Single Dose Pharmacokinetic Assay of ISIS 403102

 Treatment

 The half-life and duration of action of ISIS 403102 in mice was evaluated. A group of 27 BALB/c mice was injected with 50 mg/kg of ISIS 403102. Three mice from the group were sacrificed at days 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24, and 56 after the single dose of ISIS 403102 was administered. A control group of 3 mice was injected with a single dose of PBS, and mice in this group were sacrificed on day 1. Mice in all groups were sacrificed by cervical dislocation following anesthesia with 150 mg/kg ketamine mixed with 10 mg/kg xylazine administered by intraperitoneal injection. Liver was harvested for RNA analysis and plasma was collected for clotting analysis (PT and aPTT).

 RNA Analysis

 RNA was extracted from liver tissue for real-time RT-PCR analysis of Factor 7. Results are presented as percent inhibition of Factor 7, relative to PBS control. As shown in Table 21, treatment with ISIS 403102 resulted in 92% inhibition of Factor 7 mRNA by day 4 after which the effect of ISIS 403102 gradually decreased and was reduced to 11% by day 24. By day 56, Factor 7 mRNA levels in ISIS 403102 treated mice are equal to that of the PBS control. Results are presented as percent inhibition of Factor 7, relative to control. These data show that the peak effect of a single dose of 50 mg/kg of ISIS 403102 occurs on about day 4 and duration of action lasts for at least 24 days.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 21 

 
 Antisense inhibition of murine Factor 7 

 
 mRNA in BALB/c mice in a single dose 

 
 pharmacokinetic study 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Days 
 % Inhibition 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 61 

 
 
 2 
 87 

 
 
 3 
 92 

 
 
 4 
 92 

 
 
 6 
 86 

 
 
 8 
 80 

 
 
 12 
 72 

 
 
 24 
 11 

 
 
 56 
 0 

PT and aPTT Assay

 Prothrombin Time (PT) and Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time (aPTT) were measured using platelet poor plasma (PPP) from mice treated with ISIS 403102. PT and aPTT values provided in Table 22 are reported as International Normalized Ratio (INR) values. INR values for PT and aPTT were determined by dividing the PT or aPTT value for the experimental group (i.e. 50 mg/kg treatment with ISIS 403102) by the PT or aPTT for the PBS treated group. This ratio was then raised to the power of the International Sensitivity Index (ISI) of the tissue factor used.

 As shown in Table 22, PT increased from 1.11 on day 1 to 1.97 on day 4. PT decreased gradually after day 4 until PT reached 1.10 on day 56. aPTT increased from 1.00 to 1.24 on day 4. aPTT decreased gradually after day 4 until aPTT reached 0.97 on day 56. Consistent with the mRNA expression data (above), these data show that the peak effect of a single dose of 50 mg/kg of ISIS 403102 occurs on about day 4 and duration of action lasts at least 24 days.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 22 

 
 PT and aPTT analysis in BALB/c mice in a 

 
 single dose pharmacokinetic study 

 
 
 
 
 
 Days 
 PT INR 
 aPTT INR 

 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 1.11 
 1.00 

 
 2 
 1.64 
 1.05 

 
 3 
 1.81 
 1.24 

 
 4 
 1.97 
 1.15 

 
 6 
 1.59 
 1.23 

 
 8 
 1.55 
 1.18 

 
 12 
 1.30 
 1.18 

 
 24 
 1.12 
 1.02 

 
 56 
 1.10 
 0.97 

 Example 13

 Multiple Dose Pharmacokinetic Assay of ISIS 403102

 Treatment

 The duration of action of multiple doses of ISIS 403102 on antisense inhibition of murine Factor 7 and clotting time was evaluated. In a first group of mice, 25 mg/kg of ISIS 403102 was injected subcutaneously as a single dose. Mice from the first group were sacrificed on days 1 and 3 after the single dose. In a second group of mice, 25 mg/kg of ISIS 403102 was administered subcutaneously twice a week for 1 week. Mice from the second group were sacrificed on day 3 after the last dose of ISIS 403102 was administered. In a third group of mice, 25 mg/kg of ISIS 403102 was administered subcutaneously twice a week for 2 weeks. Mice from the third group were sacrificed on day 3 after the last dose of ISIS 403102 was administered. In a fourth group of mice, 25 mg/kg of ISIS 403102 was administered subcutaneously twice a week for 3 weeks. Mice from the fourth group were sacrificed on days 2, 7, 14, 28, 42, and 56 after the last dose of ISIS 403102 was administered. A control group of 3 mice was injected with PBS in a single dose. Mice from the control group were sacrificed 1 day later. Mice in all groups were sacrificed by cervical dislocation following anesthesia with 150 mg/kg ketamine mixed with 10 mg/kg xylazine administered by intraperitoneal injection. Liver was harvested for RNA analysis and plasma was collected for clotting analysis (PT and aPTT) for mice in all groups.

 RNA Analysis

 RNA was extracted from liver tissue for quantitative RT-PCR analysis of Factor 7. Results are presented as percent inhibition of Factor 7, relative to PBS control. As shown in Table 23, a single dose treatment of ISIS 403102 resulted in inhibition of Factor 7 as early as day 1. Inhibition increased through day 3 in the single dose treatment group. Two doses of ISIS 403102 resulted in increased inhibition on day 3 as compared to one dose of ISIS 403102. Inhibition increased through day 3 in the 2 dose treatment group. Four doses of ISIS 403102 resulted in increased inhibition in comparison to the 2 dose treatment group on day 3.

 Six doses of ISIS 403102 resulted in increased inhibition on day 7 as compared to 6 doses of ISIS 403102 on day 2. In mice treated with 6 doses of ISIS 403102, Factor 7 inhibition declined progressively on days 14, 28, 42, and 56.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 23 

 
 Dose-dependent reduction of Factor 7 mRNA 

 
 in a multiple dose pharmacokinetic study 

 
 
 
 
 
 No. of 
 Days after 
 % 

 
 doses 
 last dose 
 inhibition 

 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 1 
 44 

 
 1 
 3 
 74 

 
 2 
 3 
 86 

 
 4 
 3 
 91 

 
 6 
 2 
 83 

 
 6 
 7 
 88 

 
 6 
 14 
 64 

 
 6 
 28 
 33 

 
 6 
 42 
 5 

 
 6 
 56 
 11 

PT and aPTT Assay

 Prothrombin Time (PT) and Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time (aPTT) were measured using platelet poor plasma (PPP) from mice treated with ISIS 403102. PT and aPTT values provided in Table 24 are reported as International Normalized Ratio (INR) values. INR values for PT and aPTT were determined by dividing the PT or aPTT value for the experimental group (i.e. 50 mg/kg treatment with ISIS 403102) by the PT or aPTT for the PBS treated group. This ratio was then raised to the power of the International Sensitivity Index (ISI) of the tissue factor used.

 As shown in Table 24, PT was increased on day 3 in mice treated with a single dose of ISIS 403102 in comparison to mice treated with a single dose of ISIS 403102 on day 1. On day 3, PT increased in mice treated with 2 doses of ISIS 403102 over mice treated with a single dose of ISIS 403102. PT increased in mice treated with 4 doses of ISIS 403102 over those mice treated with 2 doses of ISIS 403102 on day 3. PT decreased in mice receiving 6 doses of ISIS 403102 from day 7 to day 56.

 aPTT was slightly increased on day 3 in mice treated with a single dose of ISIS 403102 in comparison to mice treated with a single dose of ISIS 403102 on day 1. On day 3, aPTT increased in mice treated with 2 doses of ISIS 403102 over mice treated with a single dose of ISIS 403102. aPTT increased in mice treated with 4 doses of ISIS 403102 over those mice treated with 2 doses of ISIS 403102 on day 3. aPTT decreased in mice receiving 6 doses of ISIS 403102 from day 7 to day 56.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 24 

 
 PT and aPTT analysis in BALB/c mice in a 

 
 multiple dose pharmacokinetic study 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 No. of 
 Days after 

 
 
 doses 
 last dose 
 PT INR 
 aPTT INR 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 1 
 1.04 
 1.08 

 
 
 1 
 3 
 1.20 
 1.10 

 
 
 2 
 3 
 1.43 
 1.29 

 
 
 4 
 3 
 2.13 
 1.53 

 
 
 6 
 2 
 1.64 
 1.62 

 
 
 6 
 7 
 2.08 
 1.67 

 
 
 6 
 14 
 1.37 
 1.25 

 
 
 6 
 28 
 0.96 
 0.90 

 
 
 6 
 42 
 1.00 
 1.00 

 
 
 6 
 56 
 0.99 
 0.98 

 Example 14

 In Vivo Effect of Antisense Inhibition of Factor 7 with ISIS 403102 in the FeCl 3 Induced Venous Thrombosis (VT) Model

 Treatment

 Three groups of BALB/c mice were injected with 25 mg/kg, 37.5 mg/kg, or 50 mg/kg of ISIS 403102, administered subcutaneously twice a week for 3 weeks. Two control groups of BALB/c mice were treated with PBS, administered subcutaneously twice a week for 3 weeks. Thrombus formation was induced with FeCl 3 in half of the mice while the rest of the mice were assayed for tail bleeding. Two days after receiving the last dose of ISIS 403102 or PBS, mice were anesthetized with 150 mg/kg ketamine mixed with 10 mg/kg xylazine administered by intraperitoneal injection. Thrombus formation was induced with FeCl 3 in all groups of the VT mice except the first control group.

 In mice undergoing FeCl 3 treatment, thrombus formation was induced by applying a piece of filter paper (2×4 mm) pre-saturated with 10% FeCl 3 solution directly on the vena cava. After 3 minutes of exposure, the filter paper was removed. Thirty minutes after the filter paper application, a fixed length of the vein containing the thrombus was dissected out for platelet analysis. Liver was collected for RNA analysis.

 RNA Analysis

 RNA was extracted from liver tissue for real-time RT-PCR analysis of Factor 7. Results are presented as percent inhibition of Factor 7, relative to PBS control. As shown in Table 25, treatment with ISIS 403102 resulted in significant dose-dependent reduction of Factor 7 mRNA in comparison to the PBS control. These data show that antisense oligonucleotides can be used to inhibit expression of Factor 7.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 25 

 
 Dose-dependent reduction of Factor 7 mRNA 

 
 in the FeCl 3 induced venous thrombosis model 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % 

 
 
 mg/kg 
 inhibition 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 25 
 24 

 
 
 37.5 
 74 

 
 
 50 
 69 

Quantification of Platelet Composition

 Real-time RT-PCR quantification of platelet factor-4 (PF-4) was used to quantify platelets in the vena cava as a measure of thrombus formation. Results are presented as a percentage of PF-4 in ISIS 403102, as compared to the two PBS-treated control groups. As shown in Table 26, treatment with ISIS 403102 resulted in a reduction of PF-4 in comparison to the PBS control. Therefore, antisense oligonucleotides are useful for inhibiting thrombus and clot formation.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 26 

 
 Analysis of thrombus formation by real-time 

 
 RT-PCR quantification of PF-4 in the FeCl 3 

 
 induced venous thrombosis model 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 mg/kg 
 PF-4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 PBS − FeCl 3 
 
 0 

 
 
 PBS + FeCl 3 
 
 100 

 
 
 ISIS 403102 
 25 
 34 

 
 
 
 37.5 
 24 

 
 
 
 50 
 24 

Tail Bleeding Assay

 Mice not receiving treatment with FeCl 3 solution were evaluated in a tail bleeding chamber. Mice were placed into the bleeding chamber two days after the final treatment of ISIS 403102 or PBS. Mice were anesthetized in the chamber with isofluorane and a small piece of tail (approximately 4 mm from the tip) was cut with sterile scissors. The cut tail was immediately placed in a 15 mL Falcon tube filled with approximately 10 mL of 0.9% NaCl buffer solution warmed to 37° C. The blood was collected over the course of 40 minutes. The saline filled tubes were weighed both before and after bleeding. The results are provided in Table 27.

 Treatment with 25 mg/kg and 37.5 mg/kg ISIS 403102 caused a slight decrease in the amount of bleeding in comparison to PBS treated mice. Bleeding was the same in mice treated with 50 mg/kg ISIS 403102 and mice treated with PBS. These data suggest that treatment with ISIS 403102 does not increase hemorrhagic potential.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 27 

 
 Tail bleeding assay 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mg/kg 
 Blood (g) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 PBS 
 
 0.10 

 
 
 403102 
 25 
 0.06 

 
 
 
 37.5 
 0.06 

 
 
 
 50 
 0.10 

 Example 15

 In Vivo Antisense Inhibition of Murine Factor 7 by ISIS 403102 Compared to Warfarin

 Treatment

 ISIS 403102 and warfarin (Coumadin®) were evaluated in BALB/c mice. Four groups of BALB/c mice were treated with 5 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg, or 40 mg/kg of ISIS 403102, administered subcutaneously twice a week for 3 weeks. Two days after receiving the last dose of ISIS 403102, mice were anesthetized with 150 mg/kg ketamine mixed with 10 mg/kg xylazine administered by intraperitoneal injection. A fifth group of BALB/c mice was treated with 3 mg/kg of warfarin, administered intraperioneally daily for 6 days. Four hours after the last dose of warfarin, mice were sacrificed. A control group of BALB/c mice were treated with PBS, administered subcutaneously twice a week for 3 weeks. Two days after the last dose of PBS, mice were anesthetized with 150 mg/kg ketamine mixed with 10 mg/kg xylazine administered by intraperitoneal injection. Thrombus formation was induced with FeCl 3 in groups of mice except the first control group.

 In mice undergoing FeCl 3 treatment, thrombus formation was induced by applying a piece of filter paper (2×4 mm) pre-saturated with 10% FeCl 3 solution directly on the vena cava. After 3 minutes of exposure, the filter paper was removed. Thirty minutes after the filter paper application, a fixed length of the vein containing the thrombus was dissected out for platelet analysis. Liver was collected for RNA analysis.

 RNA Analysis

 RNA was extracted from liver tissue for real-time RT-PCR analysis of Factor 7. Results are presented as percent inhibition of Factor 7, relative to PBS control. As shown in Table 28, treatment with ISIS 403102 resulted in significant dose-dependent reduction of Factor 7 mRNA in comparison to the PBS control. Conversely, treatment with warfarin did not result in significant reduction of Factor 7 as compared to the PBS control.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 28 

 
 Dose-dependent reduction of Factor 7 mRNA 

 
 in the FeCl 3 induced venous thrombosis model 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % 

 
 
 mg/kg 
 inhibition 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 PBS − FeCl 3 
 
 0 

 
 
 PBS + FeCl 3 
 
 0 

 
 
 Warfarin 
 3 
 10 

 
 
 ISIS 403102 
 5 
 59 

 
 
 
 10 
 84 

 
 
 
 20 
 95 

 
 
 
 40 
 99 

 Example 16

 Effect of Dose-Dependent Antisense Inhibition of Murine Factor 7 on the FeCl 3 Induced Venous Thrombosis (VT) Model Compared to Warfarin

 Treatment

 ISIS 403102 and warfarin (Coumadin®) were evaluated in BALB/c mice. Four groups of BALB/c mice were treated with 5 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg, or 40 mg/kg of ISIS 403102, administered subcutaneously twice a week for 3 weeks. Two days after receiving the last dose of ISIS 403102, mice were anesthetized with 150 mg/kg ketamine mixed with 10 mg/kg xylazine administered by intraperitoneal injection. Six additional groups of BALB/c mice was treated with 0.5 mg/kg, 1 mg/kg, 2 mg·kg, 3 mg/kg, 4 mg/kg, or 5 mg/kg of warfarin, administered intraperioneally daily for 6 days. Four hours after the last dose of warfarin, mice were sacrificed. A control group of BALB/c mice were treated with PBS, administered subcutaneously twice a week for 3 weeks. Two days after the last dose of PBS, mice were anesthetized with 150 mg/kg ketamine mixed with 10 mg/kg xylazine administered by intraperitoneal injection. Thrombus formation was induced with FeCl 3 in groups of mice except the first control group.

 In mice undergoing FeCl 3 treatment, thrombus formation was induced by applying a piece of filter paper (2×4 mm) pre-saturated with 10% FeCl 3 solution directly on the vena cava. After 3 minutes of exposure, the filter paper was removed. Thirty minutes after the filter paper application, a fixed length of the vein containing the thrombus was dissected out for platelet analysis. Liver was collected for RNA analysis.

 Quantification of Platelet Composition

 Real-time RT-PCR quantification of platelet factor-4 (PF-4) was used to quantify platelets in the vena cava as a measure of thrombus formation. Results are presented as a percentage of PF-4 in ISIS 403102 or warfarin treated mice, as compared to the two PBS-treated control groups. As shown in Table 29, treatment with ISIS 403102 resulted in a dose-dependent reduction of PF-4 in comparison to the PBS control for dosages of 5 mg/kg and higher. Treatment with warfarin resulted in a reduction of PF-4 in comparison to the PBS control at a dose of 1 mg/kg and higher. Therefore, ISIS antisense oligonucleotides are useful for inhibiting thrombus and clot formation.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 29 

 
 Analysis of thrombus formation by real-time 

 
 RT-PCR quantification of PF-4 in the FeCl 3 

 
 induced venous thrombosis model 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 mg/kg 
 PF-4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 PBS − FeCl 3 
 
 0 

 
 
 PBS + FeCl 3 
 
 100 

 
 
 Warfarin 
 0.5 
 165 

 
 
 
 1 
 63 

 
 
 
 2 
 47 

 
 
 
 3 
 35 

 
 
 
 4 
 22 

 
 
 
 5 
 0 

 
 
 ISIS 403102 
 1 
 120 

 
 
 
 3 
 112 

 
 
 
 5 
 69 

 
 
 
 10 
 22 

 
 
 
 20 
 41 

 
 
 
 40 
 38 

 Example 17

 Effect of Antisense Inhibition of Murine Factor 7 in a Tail Bleeding Assay Compared to Warfarin

 Treatment

 Tail-bleeding was measured to observe whether treatment with ISIS 403102 or warfarin causes internal hemorrhage in mice. ISIS 403102 and warfarin (Coumadin®) were evaluated in the tail bleeding assay. Six groups of BALB/c mice were treated with 1.25 mg/kg, 2.5 mg/kg, 5 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg, or 40 mg/kg of ISIS 403102, administered subcutaneously twice a week for 3 weeks. An additional 6 groups of BALB/c mice were treated with 0.5 mg/kg, 1 mg/kg, 2 mg/kg, 3 mg/kg, 4 mg/kg, and 5 mg/kg of warfarin, administered intraperioneally daily for 6 days. A separate control group of BALB/c mice was treated with PBS, administered subcutaneously twice a week for 3 weeks.

 Tail-Bleeding Assay

 Two days after the final treatment of ISIS 403102, warfarin, or PBS, mice were placed in a tail bleeding chamber. Mice were anesthetized in the chamber with isofluorane and a small piece of tail (approximately 4 mm from the tip) was cut with sterile scissors. The cut tail was immediately placed in a 15 mL Falcon tube filled with approximately 10 mL of 0.9% NaCl buffer solution warmed to 37° C. The blood was collected over the course of 40 minutes. The saline filled tubes were weighed both before and after bleeding. The results are provided in Table 30.

 Treatment with ISIS 403102 did not significantly affect bleeding as compared to PBS control mice. However, warfarin did increase bleeding in mice as compared to the PBS control mice. Increased doses of warfarin correlated positively with increased blood loss. These data suggest that the hemorrhagic potential of ISIS 403102 is low, especially in comparison to warfarin.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 30 

 
 Tail bleeding assay in the FeCl 3 induced 

 
 venous thrombosis model 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Dose in 

 
 
 Treatment 
 mg/kg 
 Blood (g) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 PBS 
 0 
 0.06 

 
 
 Warfarin 
 0.5 
 0.16 

 
 
 
 1 
 0.28 

 
 
 
 2 
 0.58 

 
 
 
 3 
 0.78 

 
 
 
 4 
 0.66 

 
 
 
 5 
 0.93 

 
 
 ISIS 404071 
 1.25 
 0.03 

 
 
 
 2.5 
 0.03 

 
 
 
 5 
 0.03 

 
 
 
 10 
 0.09 

 
 
 
 20 
 0.09 

 
 
 
 40 
 0.09 

 Example 18

 Effect of Antisense Inhibition of Murine Factor 7 in the Tail Bleeding Assay Compared to Apixaban

 Treatment

 ISIS 403102 and Apixaban were evaluated in BALB/c mice. In a first group of BALB/c mice, 40 mg/kg of ISIS 403102 was administered subcutaneously twice a week for 3 weeks. An additional 3 groups of BALB/c mice were treated with 5 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg of Apixaban, administered in a single intraperitoneal dose, and 10 mg/kg of Apixaban administered as a single subcutaneous dose. A control group of BALB/c mice was treated with PBS, administered subcutaneously twice a week for 3 weeks.

 Tail-Bleeding Assay

 Two days after the final treatment of ISIS 403102 or PBS, mice were placed in a tail bleeding chamber. Mice from the groups treated with Apixaban were analyzed 30 minutes after the single dose. Mice were anesthetized in the chamber with isofluorane and a small piece of tail (approximately 4 mm from the tip) was cut with sterile scissors. The cut tail was immediately placed in a 15 mL Falcon tube filled with approximately 10 mL of 0.9% NaCl buffer solution warmed to 37° C. The blood was collected over the course of 40 minutes. The saline filled tubes were weighed before and after bleeding. The results are provided in Table 31.

 Mice treated with ISIS 403102 had less bleeding than PBS treated mice. Mice treated with 5 mg/kg of apixaban by intraperitoneal injection had the same amount of bleeding as PBS treated mice. Mice treated with 10 mg/kg of apixaban by intraperitoneal injection had increased bleeding as compared to the PBS treated mice. Mice treated with 10 mg/kg of apixaban by subcutaneous injection had less bleeding than PBS mice. These data suggest that the hemorrhagic potential of ISIS 403102 is low.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE 31 

 
 Tail bleeding assay in BALB/c mice 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 mg/kg 
 Blood (g) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 PBS 
 
 
 0.22 

 
 
 ISIS 403102 
 40 
 (s.c.) 
 0.10 

 
 
 Apixaban 
 5 
 (i.p.) 
 0.22 

 
 
 
 10 
 (i.p.) 
 0.58 

 
 
 
 10 
 (s.c.) 
 0.04 

 Example 19

 In Vivo Effect of Antisense Inhibition of Murine Factor 7 on Cancer Metastasis

 The effect of inhibition of Factor 7 with ISIS 403102 on the formation of tissue factor-Factor 7 complex and its role in extravasation of cancer cells during metastasis will be evaluated. Two groups of severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) mice will be treated with ISIS 403102, injected at a dose of 20 mg/kg twice a week for 3 weeks. A control group of mice will be injected with PBS twice a week for 3 weeks. Two days after the last dose of ISIS 403102 or PBS, one of the ISIS 403102 treated groups and the control group will be injected intravenously with 50×10 6 MDA-MB-231 breast carcinoma cells.

 Two weeks after the injection with MDA-MB-231 breast carcinoma cells, mice will be sacrificed. The lungs will be harvested and real-time RT-PCR analysis of human GAPDH mRNA levels performed. The results will be normalized with mouse cyclophilin A mRNA levels. Human GAPDH levels will in the group treated with ISIS 403102 and MDA-MB-231 breast carcinoma cells group will be compared to human GAPDH levels in the other two groups of mice. This experiment is designed to assess the effect of inhibition of Factor 7 on the development of metastasis in the lungs.

 Example 20

 In Vivo Effect of Antisense Inhibition of Murine Factor 7 on Liver Fibrosis

 The effect of inhibition of Factor 7 with ISIS 403102 on experimental liver fibrosis will be evaluated in the carbon tetrachloride liver injury model.

 Treatment

 In a first group of BALB/c mice, 20 mg/kg ISIS 403102 will be injected subcutaneously twice a week for 8 weeks. In a second group of mice, PBS will be injected subcutaneously twice a week for 8 weeks. Two weeks after the first treatment with ISIS 403102 or PBS, both groups of mice will be dosed intraperitoneally with 5 μl of carbon tetrachloride (CCl 4 ) dissolved in 95 μl of mineral oil twice a week for 5 weeks. A third group of mice will be injected with 100 μl mineral oil alone. Mice will be sacrificed by cervical dislocation following anesthesia with isofluorane. Liver tissue will be harvested from all mice. Real-time RT-PCR will be used to determine the expression of fibrosis related genes, including, collagen type 1, α-smooth muscle actin, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) 3, TGF-β, Timp1 and Timp2 (MMP inhibitors). The levels in the experimental group will be compared to the levels in the control mice to assess the effect of inhibition of Factor 7 on the development of liver fibrosis.

 Example 21

 In Vivo Effect of Antisense Inhibition of Murine Factor 7 on Collagen-Induced Arthritis

 The effect of inhibition of Factor 7 with ISIS 403102 on the formation of tissue factor-Factor 7 complex and its role in fibrin accumulation in the joints leading to joint inflammation and rheumatoid arthritis will be evaluated in a collagen-induced arthritis model.

 Treatment

 In a first group of DBA/1J mice, 20 mg/kg of ISIS 403102 will be injected subcutaneously twice a week for 8 weeks. Two groups of mice will be injected with PBS twice a week for 8 weeks. Two weeks after the first treatment of ISIS 403102, type II bovine collagen (Chondrex) will be mixed with complete Freund's adjuvant, homogenized on ice and the emulsion, containing 100 μg of collagen, will be injected subcutaneously in the experimental group and the first control group. A booster injection containing 100 μg collagen type II in incomplete Freund's adjuvant will be injected subcutaneously 7 days after the first collagen injection in both these groups.

 Mice in all groups will be examined each day from day 18 after the first collagen injection for the visual appearance of arthritis in peripheral joints. The clinical severity of arthritis will be scored as follows: 1 point for each swollen digit except the thumb (maximum, 4), 1 point for the tarsal or carpal joint, and 1 point for the metatarsal or metacarpal joint with a maximum score of 6 for a hindpaw and 5 for a forepaw. Each paw will be graded individually, the cumulative clinical arthritic score per mouse reaching a maximum of 22 points. Arthritis in the experimental groups will be compared to the control group to assess the effect of inhibition of Factor 7 on the development of arthritis in the joints.

 Six weeks after the initial injection of collagen, the maximal level of arthritis will be induced. After mice are anesthetized with isofluorane and plasma is collected, the mice will be sacrificed by cervical dislocation. Livers will be harvested for RNA analysis of Factor 7 mRNA. Plasma collected from all three groups will be analyzed for clotting time (PT and aPTT). The measurement of thrombin-antithrombin (TAT) complexes in the plasma will also be performed by ELISA. The results in the experimental groups will be compared to the control group to assess the effect of inhibition of Factor 7 on the clotting time and formation of TAT complexes.

 
 
 <- Previous Patent (Xenobiotic related i...)    |    Next Patent (Lipid formulated com...) -> 

 
 
 Home 

 
 Search 

 
 Services 

 
 
 © 2004-2026 FreePatentsOnline.com. All rights reserved.
 Privacy Policy
 & Terms of Use. 

 
 
